[Music]
The AI bullishness is there. I don't
think that that has changed.
>> Technology companies driven by
artificial intelligence is going to be
where you get your earnings growth this
quarter.
>> We've obviously had a long streak of
really very little volatility. This
whole rally has been fought. The S&P is
not the same as it was 25 years ago.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Blindberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, we have a deal.
>> I just signed the largest trade deal in
history. I think maybe the largest deal
in history with Japan. They're top
people here and it's a great deal for
everybody. We're doing things that have
never been done in this country before.
And our country is becoming very rich
again. Japan and the US striking a trade
agreement sending Japanese equities
higher as Elon Musk's Tesla prepares to
report results following a Q2 storm.
Alphabet is on a 10-day winning streak
heading into Max 7 earnings. It's risk
on this morning.
>> And is it in spite of the tariffs that
we've heard announced or is it because
we've heard some announcements around
what those tariffs could be given the
fact that we have some certainty when it
comes to big tech? It's been in spite of
tariffs because this has been a more uh
tariff protected industry and one that's
had a secular tailwind behind it. The
rest of the index though in automakers,
why is it suddenly that 15 to 20 is the
new 10 and that's fine with markets and
that seems to be where we are.
>> The bad news is it's 15%. The good news
is it's not 25. That seems to be the
takeaway for markets at the moment and
maybe what we've just agreed with Japan
we can agree with the Europeans and move
on. Well, this to me is fascinating
because everyone said maybe four months
ago 10% we can probably handle. Anything
above that, it's game over. You have a
real deficit to profitability and it
creates some real headwinds that are
structural and potentially inflationary.
Now all of a sudden 15 isn't 25%. You
said this before, if you benchmark the
extremes, everything looks great and it
seems to be where we are. At what point
do we start to see it though play into
the earnings in a way that is sort of
dilitterious? We haven't seen it so far
and that is kind of the amazing thing
even with General Motors yesterday.
>> Before we talk about US equities, we'll
get to Alpha Ben and Tesla later in the
program. We've got to talk about Japan,
the eye of the storm. Three issues,
trade, the future of the prime minister
and debt auctions, your favorite because
equities, bonds, and foreign exchange
are moving in different directions this
morning. Big rally in Japanese equities
got that. But check out bonds yields up
again. The grind continues. There was an
auction of 40-year debt overnight and it
was the poorest demand for that
particular denomination going back to
2011 and you see the yields on that
denomination at record highs. You have
yields on 10-year Japanese bonds the
highest levels since uh 2008. Why?
Because you have the potential rumors
around Yeshiva prime minister stepping
down. He has denied these uh claims.
We'll get into that. But there's a
feeling that this desire to continue
spending and to cut taxes in the face of
that is adding an extra layer of noise
around a bond market that already has
struggled with a little bit more of an
inflationary backdrop and frankly a
country that's required to borrow more
to fund some of the initiatives they
just agreed to with the United States.
>> Bond your tie this morning by eight
basis points. Over in Japan state side
equities up by 4/10en of 1%. Coming up
on the program this morning, keep it
right here on Bloomberg Surveillance.
Next hour, the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson, plus the commerce secretary
Howard Lutnik, and later the former
ambassador to Japan, Senator Bill
Hagerty. We begin this hour with our top
story. President Donald Trump striking
an agreement with Japan that will impose
15% tariffs on imports. With the latest,
joining us now is Bloomberg's Amarie.
Amarie, we have a deal.
>> We have a deal when it comes to Japan.
Remember, this was a country that
everyone thought immediately out of the
gate there would get be a deal. They had
to go through a number of negotiations
and the president himself last night
holding court in the Oval Office with
Japan's top trade negotiator. 75 minutes
they were talking and getting through
the final uh details of of this trade
agreement. What we have in principle
right now, of course, there's going to
be a number of details that need to be
worked out for a full of agreement, but
across the board, we're looking at a 15%
tariff rate. Now, this is higher than
the 25% the president sent to a letter
earlier this month to Japan. It is um uh
excuse me, lower. It's also lower than
the 24% he said on April 2nd on
Liberation Day. But it's higher than the
10% that Japan was getting most used to.
What is critical for Japan in this
negotiation though is that the 25% auto
levy on autos and parts comes down to
15%. That is huge for them. For the
United States, the president says Japan
is going to open their markets to things
like autos, to things like rice, as well
as Japan investing more than $500
billion into a fund into the United
States. What's really critical for me
today seeing parts of this agreement the
president announced last night his truth
social post is that does this set the
tone as you and Lisa were just talking
about for the remainder of these trading
partners that the Treasury Secretary
told us last week like the European
Union that were dragging their feet.
>> Begs the question for the EU. They were
ready prepared to accept reportedly a
10% tariff. Are they ready prepared to
accept the 15 that Japan's about to eat?
I think they're going to have to be
prepared to accept that because why is
the president going to be willing to
come under 15% when Japan just accepted
that when Japan has a tremendous amount
of exports going into the United States,
especially when it comes to the auto
sector. So that's going to be a key
question for Brussels. They have to
decide whether or not they want to take
the chance of going have at at this to
August 1st that deadline and then
potentially getting into a wider trade
war with the United States or as you say
Jonathan eat 15%. They weren't out of
the gate like the United Kingdom which
got 10% they might get stuck at 15 or
risk going higher.
>> Amarie stay close in the nation's
capital throughout the program this
morning. that auto sector, that sector
accounting for onethird of Japanese
exports to the United States.
>> The fact that those shares are
absolutely flying. Toyota up something
like 16% on the prospect of just 15%
tariffs tells you everything about where
expectations have been and what sort of
how different it is this time around.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. FOMO is back. Julian Emanuel of
Evacore is pushing back. The next 7 to
15% is down in the S&P 500 at nearly 25
times earnings. Prices have
overdisounted continued good news on
trade and earnings at a time of year
where stocks tend to weaken. Julian
joins us now for more. Julian, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That deal does it change anything?
>> Well, so here's the psychology. It's
interesting. Of course, we we know that
markets prefer certainty. That's an
almost, you know, given. But I think
there's been this psychological
benchmarking around the 20% that people
associate with Smooth Holly, right? So
something comes in well below that 20%
number and markets think, okay, we we
can live with this. But again, I think
and and we were talking about this
earlier is is that part of it is is that
for a variety of reasons, we have yet to
see the actual effect of tariffs. uh you
know, particularly the inflation numbers
really just starting to feed at some of
the sub indices uh you know and and we
still think that's ahead and and so sort
of putting that all together at this
valuation which is the highest basically
outside of the dot uh boom and bust. We
think actually a pullback would be
healthy. raises the question just how
high is the bar in the second half of
this year because we hear a lot of
people talking about a second half
rebound and never mind a second half
rebound they're looking out to 2026 and
beyond looking for earnings to
accelerate from there well and and
there's certainly a case for earnings
accelerating but you know right now when
you look at bottoms up consensus
projecting a 13% increase in 2026 those
are the kinds of numbers that you tend
to see coming out of you know real
econom omic trough type conditions which
clearly we don't have. Um and from our
point of view there is an informative
lesson going on the last couple of weeks
and we think which is why today's
earnings begin to be important is that
the price reactions are very mixed. Uh
essentially there's an element of you
know good news being in the price on an
individual stock base. Just to build on
that point, how different are today's
earnings, Alphabet and Tesla, from what
we've seen already given the fact that
they're in the technology sector and
they're built on the promise of
innovation that might be slightly
different than some of the breadandut
consumerf facing stocks that we've seen
so far.
>> No, no question about it. And I think
the the like you look at the dichotomy
yesterday of you know better than feared
earnings out of the homebuilders massive
surge in those stocks and at the same
time the semiconductors really acting
very poorly but we have to remember the
semiconductors are up 70% off the April
lows. A lot built in. And when you look
at these reporters today, and of course
both have idiosyncrasies
around them, um it it ju it's more a
reflection of mood and positioning. And
from our point of view, again, coming
into what is typically a more
challenging point of the calendar,
August into September, uh we do think
there's a case to be made for just sort
of this pause. Someone didn't tell the
Reddit traders. And this is something
that we were talking about yesterday
with Alex Alman of Barclays. And then
overnight, people really pointed to Open
Door as well as Kohl's. Suddenly, this
uh chain out of the Midwest uh that
sells discount clothes is absolutely the
most exciting stock out there for a lot
of people who are looking to replicate
the GameStop kind of thing. I'm just
wondering why you think that isn't
enough to keep the FOMO trade going even
though there might be these questions
around valuation. Well, it it it it
clearly signals that something has
changed. And frankly, we wrote a note
over the weekend that pointed to the
fact that a number of very seasoned
investors who are running money in and
around the dot boom and bust asked us
the question, is it different this time?
And that was sort of the trigger point.
And then obviously we walk in this week
and we see, you know, tickers like Woof
and and as as you pointed all all of
these things really acting as they did
in 2021. And it tells you the mood has
changed. Speculation has advanced. But I
would remind people that similar to the
meme stock moves in 2021,
it didn't continue moving in a straight
line. There was lots of volatility in
and around particularly when uh when
those stocks unraveled.
>> The numbers that came from Alex Alman of
Barclays yesterday were just amazing.
Just one day last week, 11% of volume
across four names which only account for
2.6 basis points of total US equity
market cap. These stocks aren't a big
deal compared to the overall market cap
of the US. And I often say when we have
moments like this that just because you
found a casino doesn't mean the whole
place is Las Vegas. What about the
valuations of the companies that
actually make up the bulk of the S&P
500? What about the earnings that those
companies are delivering right now?
>> Well, again, we have no quarrel with the
earnings at all. And in fact, it was our
view coming into the earnings season,
there seemed to be a little bit too much
caution, I think, around earnings. And
our work led us to believe that you'd
be, you know, high single digits verging
on 10% growth. And that's how it it it's
shaping up. It's less about the present
earnings and more about the effect of of
the future earnings and the fact that
there is this over optimism at at uh you
know numbers again as I said earlier 13%
growth in 2026. It's just it's just a
tiny bit over the skis at this point.
>> We might have more visibility on what
the levels of tariffs will be. But Texas
Instruments yesterday I thought was
really interesting. They said yes we
might have more certainty around tariffs
but we don't know how much of a pull
forward there was. We don't understand
how this is affecting our business and
what this means for how we project going
forward. How damaging would that be to
valuations if you heard something
similar from the likes of Google or even
Tesla?
>> Well, it it it certainly would give
pause and again in a FOMO market, it may
give pause for a half an hour or a half
a day. Um uh but broader picture again
going back to my original comment that
markets like certainty the converse is
is that less certainty is certainly
something that at this valuation is
likely to be discounted. Um but but
again it's a reflection of the mood that
there's as much angst around that kind
of report given the fact that the
semiconductor index is up 70% from the
air. Apparently they they like certainty
but they don't like honesty on a
conference call just turning around and
saying we don't know. Of course the CFO
doesn't know but apparently that just
instills the fear of God in equity
investors and that's the move we see in
Texas Instruments overnight.
>> Well to me that's sort of shocking right
because at a certain point how could
they decipher from their thousands of
customers which of them are bringing
forward demand. How could they know with
any kind of certainty? But it highlights
that do we really have the certainty
that many people expected to have? Yes,
we might have the rate, but we don't
understand the adjusting and uh how
companies and consumers really handle
what these extra charges look like for
their businesses.
>> Jillian, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thanks for being here, sir. Pushing
back against some of the FOMO out there
at the moment. Julian Emanuel of EverOR.
Equities at the moment, positive once
again adding some weight to the rally.
Alltime highs once again yesterday again
this morning on the cards at 9:30
Eastern time when this market gets open.
Let's keep an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira. Hey,
>> good morning John. We start with our top
story. President Trump announced a trade
deal with Japan. The agreement imposes a
15% tariff on imports and creates a $550
billion fund to make investments in the
US. Japan also agreed to buy 100 Boeing
aircraft and boost its purchases of
rice, plus increase its defense spending
with US firms. Meanwhile, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson offered support
for Fed chair J. Powell a day after
calling for an exhaustive review of the
central bank's operations outside of
monetary policy. Bessant says he sees no
reason for Pal to step down amid
President Trump's criticism of the Fed
for not cutting rates. And Morgan
Stanley is being investigated by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
over its vetting of clients for the risk
of money laundering. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the investigation is
focused on clients risk ranking and
other practices. The bank has been
working on fixing its client screening
practices after the Federal Reserve for
years raised concerns. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next, striking
a deal with Japan.
>> They just signed the largest trade deal
in history. I think maybe the largest
deal in history with Japan. We worked on
it long and hard and it's a great deal
for everybody.
>> Up next on the program, the former
senior White House trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw, live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Here's
[Music]
the rally this morning. Futures positive
by 0.4% on the S&P. A test for the
NASDAQ later, Alphabet, Tesla, the
Russell outperforming up one full
percentage point. But if you want some
real outperformance, check out Japan.
Japanese equities rallying card. Toyota
up 14% for that stock in Japanese
trading t today. The biggest one-day
gain since '08. At one point, it was the
biggest one-day gain since 1987.
Coming to an agreement between the US
and Japan. this sector, the auto
industry, accounting for onethird of
Japan's exports to the US. So
>> is certainty enough, right? Is the idea
that you get 15% tariff and you don't
have a 25% or potentially higher tariff
enough to generate this type of gain in
terms of market share, in terms of
sustainability, or is this just the fact
that people are cheering around the idea
that they can handle something and they
have to wait to see the ramifications?
Ultimately, we'll see because I really
do think the stark difference between
the certainty of the tariff rate and
then the uncertainty of exactly how it
was going to play out in customer demand
that we've seen in some companies is
going to clash at some point.
>> There's a bit of tension between two
stories. You mentioned Texas Instruments
down hard on the uncertainty in the back
half of this year, the lack of
confidence guidance. They're quite
dependent on what happens in the auto
industry. At the same time, you've got
Toyota rocketing over in Japanese
trading. Just because you know the rate
doesn't mean you understand exactly
who's going to pay it and how that's
going to influence customer demand. And
that I think that uncertainty is going
to play out in earnings. Or maybe
they'll just lie because ultimately if
you lie and you say you're certain, you
probably will do better in terms of your
post earnings uh performance.
>> Just be hopeful. I'm not saying lie.
Just be hopeful as opposed to being
>> the difference.
>> Sorry. Carry on.
>> I told story this morning under
surveillance striking a deal with Japan.
I just signed the largest trade deal in
history. I think maybe the largest deal
in history with Japan. We worked on it
long and hard and it's a great deal for
everybody. It's a great deal. A lot
different from the deals in the past. I
can tell you that we're doing things
that have never been done in this
country before. Our country is becoming
very rich again and that's the way it
should be.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump announcing a
trade deal with Japan, imposing a 15%
tariff on imports and creating a $550
billion fund to make investments in the
US. With the latest is Amarie. Morning,
Amory.
>> Good morning, John. And I'm back with a
guest who had told us a few weeks ago,
take a few days off. All those letters
going out were consumption for those
trading partners, not for us, not for
the markets. Kelly Shaw, former US
senior trade adviser under Trump 1.0.
Thank you so much for joining us. So,
what do you make of this deal when it
comes to Japan? We had the Treasury
Secretary join us last week. Then he
went to Japan, said he was going for the
expo. He clearly met with the prime
minister. And now last night, the
president holding court able to get it
over the finish line.
>> Yeah, it was quite the surprise. I was
actually out having a nice dinner with
colleagues when the announcement came
and had to politely excuse myself. I I
don't think anyone was really expecting
this deal to come together as quickly as
it did because negotiations had been so
fraught and so challenged for weeks. Um
but clearly this was a leadertoleer
decision in terms of the president being
right there with J Japan's lead
negotiator in the Oval Office squeezing
Japan for every last drop in terms of
the these large investment figures uh
taking that what we thought might be a
10% tariff moving it up to a 15% tariff
and then striking a deal on auto. So
this is classic Trump um his style of
negotiation um and it was a very unique
way for this deal to come together but
it finally did. You actually saw the
president get those last concessions on
Twitter because an official posted a
photo where you see a Sharpie block out
the 400 billion of the original deal and
put 500 billion and as well as for the
tariff rate. Why was Japan willing to
give in at that last moment as well? Go
to 15% not not 10 and even invest
another hundred billion dollars.
>> Yeah. Well, I think some of the writing
had been on the wall. We've seen over
the past few weeks the president become
increasingly comfortable with his tariff
policy. The market was doing well.
Inflation was not rising. Good job
numbers and and this idea of pushing
countries beyond this 10% baseline which
had been in place for several months. I
I think Japan saw the writing on the
wall that it was likely to get something
above that 10% baseline. So that's why
they ultimately conceded. But you have
to also take into consideration what was
happening back in Tokyo and in Japan in
terms of the elections terms of
potential rumors of the prime minister
resigning. I think that this is a big
win for him. Uh and so that was part of
the dynamic and the president took that
moment and seized on it.
>> Two signals I want to take from this
one. What does it mean for the EU? Is
that a signal that they can't get below
15%. And also the auto tariff 25% for
everyone else but Japan's getting 15%.
Do you see the direction of travel of
everything really leveling off now at a
15% rate?
>> Yeah, I actually thought that that 15%
auto tariff was a big concession in
terms of the White House because
previously there had been talks about
limiting auto imports to something like
a TRQ, a quota, kind of like what we saw
for the UK. A specific amount um
receives a lower tariff and everything
else gets tariffed higher. In this case,
it's 15% for everything no matter the
volumes as far as we know. Um, so on the
EU side, that's a positive signal for
Mercedes, BMW, um, for Mercedes or for
European OEMs. Um, but I do think in
terms of that base tariff rate, we're
unlikely to see anything below 15% for
the EU. And I think that's probably not
the news that Brussels wanted to wake up
to this morning.
>> What do you think the European Union is
going to do waking up to this news? as
you say, this is not exactly maybe they
want to wake up to, but do they play
their hand and go till August 1st and
see if they can extract something better
or do they eat 15%.
>> Well, European negotiators are in town
this week. So, we could see an
announcement as soon as this week in
terms of that EU deal, which we had all
speculated was much closer than the
Japan deal. Um, but that said, this is a
real crisis within the union itself.
they had begrudgingly accepted a 10%
tariff as something they'd have to
swallow and now they're staring down the
barrel of a 15% tariff and are they
willing to go there? My money is they
do. I think that's where the landing
zone is with the European Union, but
it's not news that they're going to
like.
>> So, you think potentially the European
Union, we could get something before
August 1st. Who after that?
>> So, we've got a number of countries on
deck um and we've been talking about for
several months. I think Switzerland is
very close to a deal. a couple of Latin
American countries like Chile or
Argentina I can see inking a deal. Um
several Southeast Asian nations you can
see where that's trending in terms of
that 19 to 20ish% tariff rate. And then
the president has also said as have some
of his senior cabinet members that we're
likely to see a number of developing
countries in Latin America, Caribbean,
and Africa just get a 10% rate across
the board. So I think we'll see a lot of
that roll out over the next few days.
I'm watching very closely to see what
happens with Thailand, what happens with
South Korea, and what happens with
Taiwan, which are the other big
economies we haven't heard much about.
>> Kellyanne, thank you so much for your
time this morning and your insights.
Jonathan, of course, Kellyanne Shaw,
former US senior trade adviser under the
Trump uh Trump's first administration, a
good friend of the show. Now, what she
says when it comes to the European
Union, doesn't look like they're going
to get below 15% because Trump really
set the bar with this deal with Japan.
>> That bar is a little bit higher. AMH,
thank you. Thank you very much.
Kellyanne Shaw was right. take a few
days off, grab a beer, just wait, we'll
get some deals. We got one overnight.
>> Can we take one just for the rest of,
you know, August? Look, we got one
overnight in terms of what's going to
happen with Japan. And I thought it was
interesting that you said that in some
ways the White House gave concessions
when it came to 15% across the board
tariffs for Japanese vehicles and not a
quota. I mean, it just shows how high
the bar has been set. And then anything
that goes below it suddenly seems like
some sort of deal that's getting priced
to such in markets.
>> Get comfortable, grab a drink, stick
with Bloomberg surveillance. Your
morning looks like this. Coming up
later, about 35 minutes from now, we'll
catch up with the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson, plus the commerce
secretary Howard Lutnik, and Senator
Bill Hagerty, the former ambassador to
Japan under President Donald Trump. Look
out for that conversation later on this
morning. Coming up in the next 10
minutes or so, we'll catch up with Jill
Ford of Wells Fargo on the outlook for
IPOs. Plus, Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers as Texas Instruments
falls on tariff fears. That stock is
down by close to 12% from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Our performance for the small caps this
morning, the Russell up by more than one
full percentage point. Elsewhere on a
benchmark state side, an all-time high
in yesterday's session, just squeezing
out a day of gains. This morning we had
some weight to the rally up by 0.4%.
We can talk more about this trade
agreement between the US and Japan. But
check out the bond market. 2-year 10ear
30-year bond yield state side falling
for five consecutive sessions coming
into Wednesday rising this morning by
two basis points to 43678
in the States. In Japan, bond yields up
even more. This is not about the trade
agreement. This is about the future of
the prime minister and a pretty sloppy
40-year bond auction. It has to do with
the weakest demand for a 40-year bond
sale going back to 2011 in this nation.
And you've got yields at the highest
levels in the 10 years since 2008. The
why because this is a country after
years of being beset by disinflation now
sees inflation, a fiscal overhang that's
significant and a lack of political will
to actually increase taxes. In fact,
they are going to cut taxes. And now
there's a rumor the prime minister is
going to step down. You put all this
together and you get a bond market that
seems to be having some yippies. Bonds
down, yields up. They play golf in
Japan.
>> Yeah, it's quite well. They have the
specific whatever. I know what you're
sort of mount.
>> That is the center of gravity right now
in the global bond market. Japan
certainly in the driving seat with
regards to where yields go worldwide.
That's fixed income 3 hours away from
the cash open. Let's get you some
morning movers. Here's Danny Burgerer.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We're getting into the thick
of it with earnings season. Texas
Instruments reporting yesterday and this
is a story we might need to start
getting used to. That is a company that
beats on the current quarter, but their
forecast marred by tariff uncertainty.
That's what happened with Texas
Instruments. That's leading shares down
by 11.2% this morning. The CFO saying,
"Was there any pull forward effect? Is
that why results were good?" He said, "I
don't know. We have 100,000 customers.
We can't tell." That's Texas
Instruments. We also heard from Hilton
earlier in the hour. They did raise
their guidance when it came to the full
year, but it was the third quarter that
they actually lowered guidance and that
seems to be what this market is really
hanging on to. Shares are down 2 and
a.5%. The management over there flagging
a bunch of risks and it's ones that will
be familiar. It is first of all calendar
effects for them, but things like lower
government spending, less travelers
coming from international uh places,
economic uncertainty, it's stories that
still haven't gone away for Hilton. So,
those shares moving lower this morning.
Finally ending it with uh yeah the meme
stocks. It seems like we're going to get
another day of this. This time it is
GoPro and Crispy Cream, the really big
gainers so far in the pre-market.
Similar story to other ones that is
really high short interest options
exploding. By the way, I checked Wall
Street bets right before I came on. The
top post right now is someone who's bet
their entire life savings on a stock
called Rocket saying uh YOLO. It's 2021
again.
>> Danny, thank you. Meme stock revival.
That's a trade for the brave. Anyway, on
a radar this morning, a top story.
President Donald Trump reaching a trade
deal with Japan, setting a 15% tariff
rate on imports, including autos. As
part of the deal, Japan will invest $550
billion into the US.
>> And there's a lot of questions around
what that actually means, whether that's
going to be an actual straight up
investment, whether it's going to be a
loan. Okay, a lot of details still. At
the same point, the market reaction
tells you something. The fact that there
is such a huge rally on the heels of a
15% blanket tariff shows how much the
bar has been moved. And suddenly this
becomes the contours of what a new deal
looks like. 15% is the new 10%. Yeah.
And then all of a sudden you have this
real question around what this means for
the European Union and other countries
that haven't come to an agreement just
yet.
>> I think investors are hoping that Europe
just sort of goes away with 15, accepts
it, and we move on and then we kick the
can with China. And we keep kicking the
can with China maybe for the rest of
this second term for President Donald
Trump. There's a little bit of fly in
the ointment and that happens to be all
of the other agreements that Japan came
to including boosting rice purchase
purchases by 75%. The LNG agreement in
Alaska, this investment fund, I mean,
there are other sweeteners around this.
So, it's not quite as simple as 15%,
let's call it a day. How that plays in
the European Union is going to be
interesting.
>> This is being taken as equity positive
overwhelmingly. No need to push back
against that. An underappreciated aspect
of all of this still, I think, is just
how much money this is going to bring
into Treasury. We'll catch up with Scott
Besson, the Treasury Secretary later
this morning. I'd love to get an idea
from him how much he expects to bring in
over the next 12 24 months for all the
talk about fiscal prudence in
Washington. How much will this trade
story contribute to all of that?
>> And how much is 10% becoming 15% in
order to plug a $3.5 trillion hole? And
they have these numbers and they're
saying, "Okay, well, we can offset this
deficit." But that's the reason why
you're probably not going to get any
subsequent administration taking these
tariffs off because that is the secret
with tariffs. they do generate revenue
and it becomes incredibly politically
unpopular to remove said tariffs
afterwards which is a reason why they
tend to stick and that's what we've seen
over the past hundred years
>> especially if they start raising a lot
of money for people down in Washington
DC want to turn to the rest of the news
coming out of Japan the prime minister
Shagaru Oshiba is facing speculation
that his days are numbered but
continuing to deny reports claiming he
will soon announce his resignation this
is the story at the heart of the bond
market right now
>> because he was considered more uh
fiscally prudent. He was the one who was
going to push back against cutting taxes
in the face of a fiscal overhang that
need to be paid back, but also concerns
and unrest about growth and uh and
economic prospects. His approval level
in a major poll plunged to slightly
above 20%. That is considered
unsustainable politically to remain in
office. I just wonder how much his
potential removal comes because they've
actually established some sort of trade
deal or because of the trade deal that's
been established that he then can say,
"Okay, I'm gonna own that. Goodbye. Take
it from here."
>> I always follow the Japanese banks in
their commentary on whatever happens in
Japan. You need local knowledge. Jordan
Rochester of Missouo said this. The
future of the PM's in doubt obviously,
but possible replacements replacements
range from fiscal prudence to the
complete opposite. That's how wide the
range of outcomes right now are for
fiscal policy in Japan. And what we've
seen from the polls and frankly from
this latest election is that the ones
who promise a lot are the ones who tend
to win. This is a global story. Nobody
wants to accept the pain of paying back
debt. So if you have this on a global
level and you've got the populace
saying, "Nope, we want tax cuts. We want
sweeteners. We want benefits." What does
that mean for the bond vigilante that's
been dared into action time and time
again and sits on its hands and says,
"You know what? It's going to be fine."
Does that call them into action? And do
we see something more like what we saw
overnight with the 40-year auction in
Japan?
>> It's a red flag. Yeah, thank you
>> to the vigilantes without a doubt,
particularly in Japan. Let's squeeze in
Microsoft accusing Chinese state
sponsored hackers of exploiting flaws in
the SharePoint software in a hacking
campaign. China responding saying the
country opposes cyber crime, but also
opposes smearing others without solid
evidence.
>> Yeah, what could that possibly mean?
Look, this is the new front for uh
international warfare and it's the
reason why tech dominance is more than
just simply an economic argument. This
is the new front for intelligence, for
espionage, for controlling massive
entities. And that's the reason why this
is going to continue to be such a major
major focus. How do we get that
investment on a national level for
national security reasons and that's the
reason why this is, you know, the rock
star, right, is Jensen Wong because he's
at the forefront of that for the United
States.
>> Earnings from Microsoft due in the next
week or so. Let's turn back to markets.
We're seeing a resurgence of IPOs this
summer. Jill Ford, co-head of equity
capital markets for Wells Fargo, expects
activity to pick up in the second half
of 2025. Jill joins us now for more.
Jill, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Markets wide open. Is it healthy? Is the
kind of activity that you're across
right now what you would describe as
healthy?
>> Well, I would say, you know, IPO volumes
have certainly been lackluster for the
first six months of this year,
particularly contrasted versus all the
expectations post the election late last
year. We are starting to see signs of
life within the equity um capital
markets and particularly with IPOs. They
are pricing well. They're trading well.
Buyers are making money. They're looking
outwards now as as we get more clarity
with these with these tariff deals.
They're looking for new ideas as opposed
to hunkering down and trading what they
know. And that's really really healthy
for the IPO market. So, I'm optimistic.
There are uh lots of IPOs coming. Many
IPOs came in June. There are many more
coming in July. And the fall is looking
pretty good as well.
>> The typical lifespan of a company has
obviously shifted. They're staying
private for a whole lot longer. Can you
describe to us as to why why they're not
going public? Are they push factors or
pull factors? You just seeing people
sucked into private markets and staying
there because the options available to
them are so good.
>> You know, a lot of it is driven by um
the companies that own them, the private
equity sponsors. Um they are very
unemotional about when they sell things.
They want to sell at full value. They
want to realize the uh full value that
they that they deserve for their assets.
And when IPO markets have larger than
normal IPO discounts, they're going to
sit back and say, "What are my other
options?" And there's lots of options
for treading water. Um, I can give you a
whole list of of ways that private
equity firms have decided to keep their
companies private longer. The flip side
is when they do come out, they're more
mature. They have acted almost like a
private company for longer. The
management teams have um be become
accustomed to managing expenses, not
growth for growth's sake. Um, so you're
getting a higher quality company that is
coming out. It also indicates that they
see the market as frothy enough to
handle some of the potential valuations
that they would like to see for those
exits that they might not be getting uh
in previous markets. The market's been
open a long time. It's just not at the
price that they want. And I wonder if it
tells you something about where we are
in markets that a lot of companies are
starting to say, "Okay, if we're not
going to pull the trigger now, I'm not
sure when we can."
>> You know, two things are at at at uh at
play here. The first one is the IPO
market as a cohort for 2025 is up close
to 50%. Now, there's a couple of high
flyers in there that are driving it
higher, but versus the average 15% pop,
that's really meaningful for people's
portfolios. The second thing that's
going on is that um people are starting
to realize the queue is getting so
large, we couldn't cycle through it in a
single year. Um you know, the IPO
backlog right now is about 200 companies
or so that have uh filed confidentially.
There's probably another two to 300
companies beyond that who are IPO worthy
who have not yet gone through that
process. So if you take an average IPO
year of call it 75 to 100 IPOs, you're
looking at several years to try to clear
this queue. Do you want to be in the
front of the queue or do you want to be
in the back of the
>> We keep hearing this the idea of the
backlog building and the idea that the
pipeline is full. It's just a matter of
when you're going to pull the trigger.
And I wonder if the tariff levels that
we've gotten overnight are enough enough
certainty, especially when paired with
the legislative certainty that we've
seen in Washington DC for a lot more
companies to pull the trigger.
>> Well, I do think that IPOs love boring,
right? They don't want volatility.
They're out for 7 to 8 days of market
exposure. And the great news is that
over the last few months, we've started
to see the market shrug off a lot of
that news flow, right? And so with
continued clarity on tariffs, a we've
got a a calmer market hopefully, but B,
um CEOs and CFOs are going to be able to
forecast their business more accurately.
If you can't forecast your business
because of tariffs here, there, and
everywhere in your in your supply chain,
um you're really going to struggle to
give people comfort to come into a new.
So those two things are at play, and
we're starting hopefully to be on the
road to more clarity around that.
>> Joe, could we finish on the resilience
of corporate America? This has been an
ongoing theme now for the last several
months. You talked about them being
battleh hard and battle tested once they
became public companies. Can you reflect
on your experience of just how resilient
corporate America actually is? The
ability to to borrow a phrase from our
good friend TK to adapt and to adjust.
>> No question. Um 2021 we obviously saw a
lot of nonsense go on and a bit of a
bubble and then very very little
activity in the years following. I think
companies have had to learn um to be
much more prudent, conservative, um to
manage not just growth, but to manage
margins if they're not profitable, to
have a bridge towards near-term
profitability. And overall, that's
created a really healthy backdrop. You
know, the other the other uh thing to to
focus in on is the health of the
consumer, right? If your consumer is not
healthy, is now the right time to be
going public. as the consumer also
appears to be very resilient. Um we're
seeing those corporations that are have
them as customers become even more
resilient and healthy. And so we're
optimistic through uh the the second
half of 2025 and certainly well into
2026 as it relates to IPO volumes.
>> Jill, this was great. It's good to catch
up. Thanks for the update. Jill Ford
there of Wells Fargo. You've all heard
the phrase before, never bet against the
US consumer. Bank of America Sea
Submmanium said something similar to
Jill. Never underestimate corporate
America. Yeah, and we've seen that time
and again, and that's really something
that we saw coming out of the pandemic.
But right now, the ability for these
companies to maneuver and tweak around
the edges to just get that perfect uh
mix where consumers can adjust to a
little bit higher prices, but also
absorbing just a little bit on their
bottom line has really been rather
surprising.
>> Record highs on the S&P 500 coming into
Wednesday this morning. Futures up by
0.4%. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
let's cross over to Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The UK Supreme Court has just
reversed the convictions of Tom Hayes
and Carlo Palumbo, the traitors who were
found guilty in the library scandal. The
court allowed both appeals, stating that
the juries had been misdirected at both
criminal trials. Hayes was sent to jail
a decade ago, while Palumbo was jailed
back in 2019.
Meanwhile, Ro paused some shipments of
the controversial gene therapy 11
following a similar action by Surrepta
Therapeutics. This coming after two
teenage boys died of acute liver failure
after taking the drug. Ro described the
pause as voluntary and temporary. And
Danny mentioned this one earlier, but
take a look at Texas Instruments. Shares
are plunging in the pre-market. The
chipmaker beat most estimates, but
failed to offer investors real insight
into the impact of tariffs on margins.
Executives from the company simply
acknowledging they don't know how much
of their 16% revenue jump came in from
tariff related pullin. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes. Up next, the pressure
building on Tesla and Elon Musk. We'll
catch up with Ben Callow of that. That
stock positive by just a third of 1%.
From New York City, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
A trade deal between the United States
and Japan unleashing a rally worldwide
in Japan and states side. Look out for
this in about 13 minutes from now. a
conversation at 7:00 a.m. Eastern time
with the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson. Then later on this morning, the
commerce secretary and then after that
some insight on Japan with the former
ambassador to Japan, Senator Bill
Hagerty. Fantastic lineup coming up
right here on Bloomberg Surveillance.
Under surveillance this morning,
pressure building on Tesla and Elon
Musk.
Investors have hit a point where they
want him focused on Tesla and AI. This
is a key few years ahead for Tesla going
not just from Austin but 25 cities over
the next year. We've said the biggest
asset when it comes to autonomous is
Tesla cuz when you think of Wimos
they're not going to scale at any level
relative to Tesla. So when you're
competing with China Tesla and Musk is
an asset no different than Jensen.
Here's the latest this morning following
a 2Q policy storm for Elon Musk.
Investors looking ahead to Tesla
earnings out after the closing bout.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
Craig Judelle. Craig, welcome back to
the program. Let's just talk about the
underlying business sales. How are they
holding up?
>> Not well in short. I mean, I I think we
got, you know, fresh indication of this
uh maybe just sort of further drilled
down just yesterday a look at at
California registrations for Tesla.
They're now down in that state uh seven
consecutive quarters and and down
substantially in the second quarter. I
think maybe the most alarming figure you
saw in there was a a real weakness for
the Model Y. This was, you know, of
course the the one of the sort of
excuses if you were Elon Musk for for
the early year sales weakness at Tesla
was, oh, this is, you know, just has to
do with the fact that we have, you know,
this new model that's coming out. We
needed to take some plant downtime and
we needed to have this, you know,
changeover, but this new uh vehicle is
sort of waiting in the wings. It it does
not seem, at least thus far, like that
is delivering the sort of relief that
that Musk and and Tesla were hoping it
would.
>> Craig, it would be hard enough to just
run a car business right now, but the
individual leading the car business has
had all this tension down in Washington
DC as well. What is holding back the
stock? One or the other or both?
>> You know, I I think there's real concern
uh on a day-to-day basis on, you know,
sort of just what Musk is up to, right?
is is he dedicating the time to Tesla
that he told uh shareholders he would a
quarter ago when he last had an earnings
uh call. And you know this is a co
unlike most others in that he sort of
lives his life very much online where we
have a real sort of clear sense of you
know today is he working at XAI is he uh
you know playing video games is he doing
you know anything but uh working for his
car company that is is his most valuable
uh you know company in in his empire and
one that you know has felt a bit
neglected the last you know year plus in
terms of uh you know the the sort
reinforcement of product that everybody
was hoping we would see uh in particular
more affordable models that would enable
Tesla to to grow again. Craig Trudel out
of London this morning. Craig, thank
you, sir. Let's get the view from the
analyst community this morning. Ben
Callow of Bed has a neutral rating on
shares of Tesla, a 320 price target. He
joins us now for more. Ben, welcome to
the program. You've been cautious.
You've articulated that view to us quite
a few times over the past few months.
Why are you cautious into this report
later on this afternoon?
Well, I I think uh you know, as uh your
previous guest talked about, you the
sales slump. Uh we will see a pickup in
Q3, uh there is an end to the $7,500 tax
credit for uh US consumers. So, there
will be a little bit of a pull in of
demand there. So, uh we should expect,
you know, stronger Q3 uh delivery
numbers, but we're still seeing
discounting uh heavily in China. uh we
see uh you know uh poor numbers out of
Canada albeit that's a small uh market
for them and then Europe too and I still
think that there is somewhat of uh you
know a musk factor there um uh with you
know brand destruction destruction is a
is a tough word but uh a brand maybe
brand tarnishing uh uh for him uh there
now I think investors are looking
through a lot of this uh to robo taxi uh
you know the the clip you play in the
beginning talking about way not being
able the scale. Um they scale
differently. They have different
technology. It takes more money than
Tesla. Uh but I think that they'll be a
fierce competitor uh to the robo taxi
that Tesla delivers uh even if they
Tesla can scale more quickly.
>> Ben, just to build on that one point
about Elon Musk and some of his
political involvements. Yesterday SpaceX
put out a tender offer in which they
listed for the first time a potential
risk factor that Elon Musk, the founder,
might potentially get back into
politics. What do you think happens if
uh Tesla has a similar type of warning
in its documents today? And do you
expect that?
>> Um I I I I would expect it to you know
when they do if they list as a risk in
in the uh in the filing the quarterly
filing um I think that you know it's
it's well known out there. um the degree
that he gets into politics and you know
kind of the statements that he makes I
think you know is another risk factor
for the stock uh and definitely for the
brand and just one thing that you know
we've highlighted or tried to highlight
uh in addition to you know the car being
a brand robo taxi is a brand too
especially when you start thinking about
uh you know in the future getting into a
vehicle without uh without a driver
there and it's a Tesla vehicle if
there's you know backlash against Tesla
like we've saw before which seems to
have quieted down a bit but still that I
think would deter uh people from riding
in their vehicles just like it has in
the past for people buying their
vehicles.
>> Brand reputation and just sort of the
myth around Tesla has been so important
since people have said this is a stock
built on hopes and dreams and the
expectation of what the robo taxi
universe looks like. Is that enough
still given the fact that the deliveries
numbers are going to probably not look
great and the fact that the robo taxi
efforts been moving slower than we've
thought and you've had the potential
lack of a political clean slate to
really get this over the finish line in
in short order?
>> No, we've covered the stock for over 10
years. Um and you a lot a lot of the
promises have you know have been uh met
uh albeit you know a year, two year,
three year late. Um I I think that uh
what's interesting to me is that you
know after last quarter and uh really uh
one of the worst quarters that I'd seen
out there that you know the stock still
reacted favorably um because of some of
the promises with Optimus uh with the
robo taxi roll out. So it still has Elon
still has that ability to uh to inspire
and to you know keep you know the
valuation and keep people dreaming the
dream. Um I don't know how long that
lasts. We've heard reports out that
Optimus is going to be pushed out. I do
think that, you know, between Optimus
and Roboaxi, Optimus is an area that
we're much more bullish on. It's going
to be competitive, but Roboaxi is going
to be very competitive, too. Uh, you
know, as more companies uh, you know,
bring vehicles to the road.
>> Hey Ben, appreciate the update from you
as always. Sir Beno there of bad looking
ahead to numbers from Tesla after the
closing battle alongside Alphabet. The
focus this morning is on trade. We have
a deal between the United States and
Japan. And a question this morning, can
we strike a similar deal with the EU?
And what happens if we don't? This is
the latest breaking news from the team
over in Europe from Bloomberg. The EU
plans to quickly hit the US with 30%
tariffs on some 100 billion euros worth
of goods in the event of a no deal
scenario.
>> Yeah, and some of these include Boeing
aircrafts as well as cars made in the US
as well as bourbon. I mean, you start
looking at the locations where some of
this is made. This to me is also
interesting. Berlin would also
potentially be willing to support the
anti-coercion measures that they had
been talking about before, including
potentially taxing some of the tech
companies from the United States that
necessarily isn't part of this, but
still open to that. Just raising the
ante ahead of this deal. Is it really
going to be as clean as 15%. Let's call
it a deal. Goodbye. Go home.
>> This is part of an ongoing negotiation
quite clearly from the EU side to get
that information out there without
irking the US side too much. This is
where we've been at now for the last
several months.
>> Yeah. Is this the EU saying to President
Trump, here's your letter. This is our
this is our potential negotiating in the
press.
>> Yes. Exactly. And so we're the ones that
are evidently the conduits for it.
>> Up next on the program, the second hour
of Bloomberg surveillance just around
the corner. Don't miss this. A mustwatch
conversation. The Treasury Secretary of
the United States, Scott Besson, up
next.
[Music]
This is not necessarily an allclear
environment.
>> It is a kind of a murky data picture.
>> I'm not sure we can actually pinpoint
what the Fed is going to do.
>> There are costs. There are costs in the
economy to the Fed having interest rates
as high as they are.
>> We do think they should be cutting.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> We've got some more good news live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning. The second hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now and your scores look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by 0.4% on the NASDAQ 100 up by about a
tenth of 1%. some outperformance on the
Russell. The small caps up by 0.9 later
on this afternoon. Look out for this
earnings from big tech. The MAX 7 start
to report earnings. We'll hear from
Alphabet. We'll hear from Tesla. And
then coming up tomorrow, apparently
we're going to look ahead to an ECB rate
decision and jobless claims, too. Why
look ahead to that right now? I've got
no idea because we're focused on Japan
and the United States striking a trade
agreement. Yeah, evidently uncertainty
is worse for equity markets than the
prospect of tariffs at 15% which are
higher than that 10% level that so many
people had expected to see. And that's
the reason why you're seeing auto
manufacturers in Japan flying. It isn't
necessarily hampered that industry by
extra tariffs or quotas etc. And 15%
evidently we can digest. Now come the
earnings. Do we get that same sense of
clarity from corporate executives that
have to adapt and adjust to all of these
new realities even if you have that
certainty? uh coming from the
administration.
>> These are trade agreements right now
very much in focus. We've struck a deal
with Japan. That's good news. Can we
apply the same template to the
Europeans? Can we apply the same
template to some of these other major
trading nations and then move on?
>> Based on the reporting from Bloomberg
over the past couple of minutes, I don't
know. It's going to be a real question
if you have the kind of retaliatory talk
coming from the European Union of a
potential 100 billion euro package of
retaliation on a whole host of different
goods. Is that really going to endear
themselves to the president to get
something over the finish line? How much
has the bar shifted where 15% would be
fine? Just as we said a week ago, 10%
would have been fine, right? Has that
moved enough where 15 is a new 10 and
that's okay?
>> We've had some exemptions. We've had
some extensions. Have we actually had
the tariff test yet? And looking at the
likes of Texas Instruments, the
nervousness on that conference call
going into the second half didn't
exactly instill confidence in investors
in the stock this morning. the fact that
shares are lower by more than 11% in
pre-market trading after the company
reported better than expected earnings
but then said we don't know honestly we
have no idea how many of our 100,000
customers brought forward their demand
because they were uncertain about
tariffs well that's just honest right
how many other companies can be that
transparent with some sense of security
about what to expect in the road ahead
and these are some of the questions that
we have corporate executives might have
certainty about a rate but how it works
itself through the economy is going to
be a really more complicated measure and
how they really game that out with
profitability is going to be a real
issue.
>> That's the stock market. Let's briefly
talk about the bond market state side
yields just a little bit higher. Not by
much, but over in Japan by a lot. The
deal in Japan is one thing. The future
of the prime minister is quite another
and it's the future of the prime
minister and the trajectory for fiscal
policy that is shaping not just this
bond market in Japan but arguably this
bond market worldwide. Has the bill come
to really come to roost in the sense
that so many different developed market
economies have propped up their economic
well-being by borrowing money and the
developed world has been able to do that
without necessarily the kind of punitive
actions by bond holders that the
developing world has seen. So is that
starting to shift where suddenly the
fact that nobody wants to pay for this
is becoming a problem for the bond
markets? Yes, in Japan we're seeing that
to a big degree but do we start to see
that more globally as well? Bonds down
in Japan, yield higher. Coming up on the
program this morning, a fantastic lineup
for you moments from now, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson. Next hour, the
Commerce Secretary Howard London. And
later, the former ambassador to Japan,
Senator Bill Hagerty. We begin this hour
in Washington. President Trump
announcing a trade deal with Japan.
>> I just signed the largest trade deal in
history. I think maybe the largest deal
in history with Japan. We worked on it
long and hard and it's a great deal for
everybody. I always say it has to be
great for everybody. It's a great deal.
A lot different from the deals in the
past. I can tell you that.
>> Joining us now from Washington DC is
Amarie with a special guest. Hey Amory.
>> Hey Jonathan. Good morning. That's
right. I'm joined by the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant this morning. On
the heels of this agreement the
president announced last night. Last
week you joined me, John and Lisa. And
you said you were going to Japan for the
world expo. Wasn't really going to be
focused on trade. You came back. The
president had a 75minute meeting as well
last night with the trade negotiator.
You were in the room and he got this
deal with you alongside him over the
finish line even though the reporting
out of Washington that actually the
discussions with Japan were quite
difficult. What changed in the last 24
hours? Uh look a and Marie we had some
discussions about the overall US Japan
relationship which was one of the
strongest in the world when I was in
Tokyo and and Osaka and then we got back
uh there were elections on Sunday. Uh
LDP uh did slightly better than
expected. They don't have a majority. uh
Japanese government was ready to deal
and
as president only President Trump could
do, he brought the Japanese trade
delegation into the oval and had a very
wholesome uh negotiation with them. And
I tell you, they're they're tough
negotiators, but President Trump's
tougher.
>> Well, there is a photo circulating on
Twitter from Dan Scavino, and you
actually see a Sharpie X out of some
what looks like preliminary deals for
even more concessions with Japan. I want
to ask you about this 15% tariff rate.
Is that the new floor now for trading
partners when you're going into these
negotiations?
>> Well, I I think it's very important to
know that, you know, 15% for Japan for
reciprocal tariffs for autos. Uh that is
a different kind of deal, but the
because the Japanese proposed a very
innovative solution. Uh we'd been
working with them for months, the trade
team, uh myself, Ambassador Greer,
Secretary Lutnik, and they came to us
with the idea of a Japan US partnership
where they are going to provide equity,
credit guarantees and funding for major
projects in the US. So they got the 15%
rate because they were willing to
provide this innovative financing uh
mechanism. There is a lot of Japanese
FDI into the United States already. Is
this new capital?
>> Oh, no. This is all new capital. This is
this is all new capital and it is going
to be targeted at the strategic
industries that President Trump and this
administration believe we have to derisk
on during COVID. We saw our
vulnerabilities whether it was in
medicines, semiconductors.
So, we are going all in over the next
few years to derisk our supply chains
and this deal, thanks to President
Trump, is going to be part of that.
>> When it comes to the 15% rate on autos,
this means that Toyota is basically
paying a cheaper rate than say GM if
they have inputs from other countries.
Still, they're still at the 25% auto
rate. Do you see the auto rate leveling
out to something lower than 25%.
>> You know, we we'll we'll have to see.
And again, those are just GM components.
There's also the USNCA
uh the portion of any autos assembled in
the US. And then of course GM and
especially Ford, I think Ford has the
largest US production. You build it in
the US, there are no tariffs.
>> So when it comes to what's next, we know
the EU negotiators are in town. This 15%
rate feels like potentially a floor.
Could anyone get below 15%? Is the
European Union still trying for a 10%
minimum baseline tariff?
>> Well, again, the 15% is a result of this
very innovative package that the
Japanese came with and you know,
President Trump being able to push them
to do even more so
>> has Brussels come up with anything
innovative?
>> Uh, not yet, but again, uh, talks are
going better than they had been. I think
that we are making good progress with
the EU, but as I've said before,
Anmarie, you know, the EU has a
collective action problem. 27 countries.
Great thing about dealing with the
Japanese. I've been going to Japan uh
since 1990. I think this weekend was my
52nd trip and the Japanese government
moves as one entity. They're highly
organized across all level of
government.
>> So, you say that talks are going better.
We just have a story hitting the
terminal this morning from our
colleagues in Europe that the European
Union is readying hundred billion
dollars uh uh euros if there is no deal
in place. They will impose 30% tariffs
on those hundred billion euros worth of
goods. Do you think we're going to get
to that place?
>> I I think it's a negotiating tactic and
you know it's it's what I would do if I
were in their place. But Anie, remember
we are the deficit nation. They're the
surplus nation. So any kind of a
escalation in trade problems will always
hit them worse.
>> I want to also talk to you about what's
going on with China. You're going to
Stockholm Monday, Tuesday to meet with
your Chinese counterparts. Are we going
to continuously see the discussions
revolve around rare earths and export
controls or there going to be other
items on the table?
>> I I think we're in a very good place
with China now. Uh and we can start
moving on to bigger discussions. You
know, as I've said many times, there is
the potential for a big, beautiful
rebalancing between the US and China.
President Trump is committed to bringing
back precision manufacturing to the US.
And as we become more of a manufacturing
economy, China is highly imbalanced.
They account for 30% of all the
manufacturing output in the world.
That's not sustainable.
We believe they should become more of a
consumption economy. If they are willing
to go down that route, then we could
actually do it together. And then there
are lots of other things we can talk
about, whether it's uh them buying
sanctioned Russian or Iranian oil, you
know, a number of security things. And
so I I
>> What about the purchasing agreement from
Trump's first administration? He had a
deal with China, uh the phase one
purchasing agreement on agriculture.
Well, again, that's that's another way
that we could bring this imbalance
relationship into into balance. So, we
will be talking about a purchasing
agreement, especially a so uh and to
refresh everyone's memory, uh we had the
purchase agreements, Chinese lived up to
the purchase agreements during President
Trump's final year uh in office and then
the Biden administration didn't enforce
those purchase agreements. So, you know,
we're going to let bygones be bygones.
We're going to look forward and I think
we can uh come up with some very
interesting purchasing agreements. As
you know, President Trump is committed
to the American farmers.
>> Well, looking forward, you told me,
John, and Lisa last week, the market
doesn't need to worry about August 12th.
That's the deadline for this current day
taunt between Washington and Beijing.
What's the new deadline going to be?
Well, again, you know, I think that we
could roll roll it forward maybe in a
90day increment. And I think the good
news here is that we are back on track
with the Chinese negotiations.
On April 2nd, President Trump told
countries, uh, here's your reciprocal
rate, but that was the ceiling. If you
do not escalate, if you don't escalate,
this is the max. The Chinese chose to
escalate, but now we both sides have
deescalated and I think we can get into
a very good cadence of regular meetings
with them. And look, we're the two
largest economies in the world. We do
not want to decouple with the Chinese.
We just need to derisk part of our
supply chain.
>> Does regular incremental meetings
include a meeting between President
Trump and Xi Jinping this fall? Uh, I do
know that party chair Xi has invited
President Trump to visit China. I don't
know. I don't have dates on that. I
don't know if the president's accepted.
I know they have a fantastic
relationship on a personal level, which
I think forms the basis of everything
between the US and China.
>> Local reports in China were talking
about the two meeting on the sidelines
of the Apac summit in South Korea this
fall. It's end of October, early
November. or maybe President Trump going
to China first. Could we see a meeting
that soon? You think a meeting within
this year can happen?
>> I I again I'm not privy to the
president's travel schedule beyond
September. So, we'll see.
>> And nothing before a meeting with Xi
Jinping before September.
>> Uh nothing before Labor Day.
>> So, in the last week, I do want to go
through something that's going on with
China. They've imposed exit bans on a
Wells Fargo banker, a Commerce
Department employee, and according to
Microsoft, they hacked into their
software. Will you address these actions
at the talks in Stockholm?
>> Uh we're going to address a whole host
of things and you know obviously things
like that will be on the agenda with my
Chinese counterpart.
>> You had said to me last week that the
Nvidia H20 chip was potentially a chip
in negotiations, a mosaic part of the
deal. Do you think China's doing this
for leverage at the trade table?
>> Absolutely not.
>> Absolutely not. because um again uh
the the H20 while it is an advanced chip
is not one of the most advanced chip. I
think if we were to think about the
Nvidia stack uh you know the HP would be
some something fourth fifth down the
stack and uh my understanding is that
Huawei can produce something with
similar efficacy
>> but China's malicious behavior even just
in the past week even targeting a
commerce department employee do you
think they're doing this to have
leverage with the United States? Uh well
I I can tell you uh in Stockholm it's
not going to give them any leverage with
me and you it it's a big sprawling
bureaucracy and sometimes I think we may
see uh the arrest may have been in a
province the central government may not
be aware of it. So you know I I would
highly doubt that something at that
level uh that that they have uh wanted
to engage with the US uh we are engaging
with them and I think both sides want to
move forward in a productive way
>> but you'll raise these issues.
>> Yes.
>> So now that the administration is
getting trade deals across the finish
line Japan, Indonesia, Philippines
yesterday you said the European Union
potentially in sight. Do you think the
Federal Reserve is going to have enough
clarity by September to cut interest
rates?
>> Again, I I'm not really sure what the
Federal Reserve is looking at because uh
thus far, we have not seen or we've seen
very little if any uh price pressures
from the tariffs. And if we were to see
those uh they wouldn't be inflationary,
be a one-time price adjustment. So I
again I I think that their analysis of
tariffs is a bit off.
>> Well, Governor Waller made this exact
case to us on surveillance on Friday and
it sounds like he might dissent at this
meeting. He also said the president
hasn't called him yet. He's one of these
names that are circulating around could
he replace Fed Chair Jay Powell. Is he a
name you're looking at? Have you reached
out to him? I I think there are a lot of
strong candidates including several who
are on the main board and perhaps uh
regional bank presidents.
>> So are there other names outside of
Kevin Hasset, Kevin Walsh, Christopher
Waller, and you yourself has been
circulating?
>> Uh there there's a long long list and
like I said there there's there's some
great candidates
>> and have you reached out to everyone on
both those lists? Uh I'm not going to
talk about the process, but uh we are
getting the process underway. Obviously,
it's going to be President Trump's
decision, and we're we're not in a rush.
>> So, Oh, you're not in a rush, but the
president continuously says he wants to
get rid of the Fed chair, Jay Powell.
Muhammad Alan yesterday said he should
resign.
>> Do you think Jay Pal should step down to
protect the institution?
>> The uh couple of things. Uh, one, the
president has said he is not going to
fire Cher Powell. Uh, I was somewhat
surprised uh that Muhammad Elan came out
and said that. And what I've come out
and said is that I I believe that it
would do Chair Powell a favor and he
would be doing the institution a favor
if the if he did an internal review,
separate monetary policy from everything
else. And this is something that Larry
Summers and I agree on is this mission
creep from the Fed is endangering their
independence of monetary policy. So all
these other things that they're engaging
in uh could threaten monetary policy. So
it is a big sprawling institution. Uh
the central budget for the the board is
up 4x since 2004. And you know, every
every institution
needs uh to examine themselves.
>> But you want the man that you guys don't
think is doing a good job to run that
review.
>> What's that?
>> But you want the man Jay Powell, which
you and the president don't think is
doing a very good job, to run the review
of the institution. Well, I I think that
it it could be a committee. It could be
a a group. Uh they could invite outside
experts in. You know, the the Bank of
England after the 20ou 2022
uh rate hike shock uh went back and did
a very good examination of what went
wrong with monetary policy that brought
in outside experts. So, uh, you know, I
think an internal review would be a good
start. And if the internal review, uh,
didn't look like it was serious, then
maybe there could be an external review.
>> Have you communicated this directly with
Jay Powell? Do you guys continuously
have your once a week, breakfast,
lunches either at the Fed or the
Treasury? I I I gave a speech on Monday
night on bank deregulation, bank
regulation, the future of regulation,
which is, you know, aside from monetary
policy, I I think the most important
thing for the economy. The Fed is one of
three regulators. There's the Fed, the
Office of Control of the Currency, which
sits under Treasury, and the FDIC.
And you know, I I believe that uh all
three of those should have important
voices. And I believe that the
regulation has been much too stringent
since the great financial crisis. We are
seeing this big buildup outside the
regulated financial system. I think I
saw something two days ago the private
credit is up 10x. Uh, you know, I not
saying it's a financial stability
problem, but I am saying that there's a
regulatory arbitrage going on, but that
was a long way of saying I saw Cher
Powell at that speech
>> and your lunches and breakfast continue
>> always.
>> So, you have a good relationship with
him at the moment.
>> Uh, we we have continuing communication.
>> Last time you were on, you also talked
about the potential next Fed chair. You
said his or her nomination. Is Governor
Bowman also in the running? Again, I'm
I'm not going to name names, but uh
they're uh good candidates, as I said,
on the board at there's several female
regional bank presidents, and then there
there are some fantastic women outside
the Fed.
>> There's also Governor Cougler's chair
that is open in January. Have you
started that process?
>> Uh it it it's a simultaneous process. Uh
the Cougler chair is a 14year seat. So
uh we'll we'll be looking at that also.
And and again I I think we have some
very good candidates.
>> Given you just saw Jay Powell, has he
yet to tell you whether or not he is
going to leave the board his governor
seat by before 2028?
>> Uh he he hasn't yet. Uh my my belief is
that he will and I think that it would
be very good for the institution for him
to do it and I think it'd be very good
for him personally to do it.
>> The president once said that he goes out
and riles financial markets and then he
sends you his Treasury Secretary out to
calm things. Things are pretty calm
today, but when it comes to the Fed
chair and I know you love college
basketball and you talk about the
president being Bobby Knight and and I
know you love Dean Smith. Do are you
guys playing this good cop bad cop when
it comes to talking about the Fed,
talking about Jay Powell?
>> Uh, not not at all. You know, and Marie,
the the reason I I think that I'm to the
extent I'm able to calm the markets and,
you know, that that doesn't always
happen, I I was in the investment
business for 35, 40 years. But I think
more importantly than that, I understand
what President Trump is doing. And a lot
of times he's one, two, three steps
ahead of the market. And you know, as
you know better than anyone, the market
wants instant explanations. They they
want they want clarity. They they want
you uh immediate gratification. So I
think that I am able to as a former
practitioner. I think about when
President Trump tells me what his goals
are. I think about what is the best way
for me to give good framing to market
participants for them to understand what
he's doing because you know he always
has a plan. Uh it's not always obvious.
>> So you are communicating almost the
strategic ambiguity that he likes to
operate from. Well, and I'm also trying
to uh explain that there there is a plan
because you know look these letters went
out uh everyone was oh my gosh the these
are high rates and I think the president
created maximum negotiating leverage and
the the market actually took it pretty
well to took took it pretty well. Just
to finish on that final point then, do
you think he's more emboldened to go for
higher rates with trading partners now
given the market is not pushing back?
>> Well, I I I think he's created a lot of
leverage because he's created an AB
situation. He's able to go to the
trading partners and say, look, I am
happy to take in this tariff income if
you don't want to negotiate. This is a
high rate, but you the the US is taking
in massive amounts of tariff income. We
had the first June uh budget surplus
since 2015
uh last month, we reported it this
month. And so we are taking
insubstantial income. So President Trump
is creating this leverage by saying if
you don't want to negotiate with me,
I've sent you a letter with a high rate.
you're have at the high rate or come and
negotiate in better fashion because I
I'll tell you what was fascinating for
me and this was President Trump at his
best at his best was uh the Indonesians
came with what I thought was a very good
offer uh out of the blocks. Uh President
Trump kept pushing them. He raised the
reciprocal rate when he sent them the
letter and five uh iterations later, the
Indonesian trade deal was greatly
improved turned into a great deal for
both sides.
>> Secretary Scott Bessant, thank you so
much for your time this morning. John
Lisa, of course, the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant this morning on
the heels of that deal with Japan.
>> Amory, great work as always, Amory there
on that agreement with Japan. To unpack
the other things in this, I think two
main features here. one on a deal with
the Europeans, a potential agreement
down the road, and the other on the
Federal Reserve. On the Europeans, talks
with the EU are going better than they
had been, just turning down the
temperature just a little bit, saying
that the EU's retaliatory preparation is
a negotiating tactic. I would do the
same if I were in their place. That's
the European Union. Then on the Fed, the
president has said he's not going to
fire Chairman Pal. Disagrees with them
on the analysis, but we're not in a rush
to nominate a new Fed chair. and he
threw in regional Fed presidents as
well, which I thought was a new bit of
information there, too.
>> Given the fact that we've had a pretty
limited slate, this sort of opens the
door not just to Mickey Bowman, who's a
governor, but also to some others who
potentially have come out with more
dovish. So, everyone could be running. I
mean, that's sort of my my takeaway, the
idea that they're really broadening it
up.
>> Maybe that list is longer than we
thought.
>> Exactly.
>> Longer than just the two Kevins. Yeah.
For instance. Up next on the program,
James Picarriello of BMP Parabar as the
US and Japan agree to a 15% tariff on
Japanese autos.
[Music]
Record highs coming into Wednesday.
Equity futures this morning positive by
a third of 1%. At the epicenter of this
conversation, a trade agreement with the
US and Japan. More on that in just a
moment. On the S&P up a third, on the
NASDAQ up a tenth. With your morning
movers, is Danny Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. We got AT&T earnings about an
hour ago. And across the board, the
metrics were good. They beat they also
outlined much like Verizon that they're
going to save a whole lot of money from
the one big beautiful bill. For them,
it's 6.5 to 8 billion worth of savings
that they're going to reinvest into
their network. Even so, check out what
shares are doing. down 3 and 12% in the
pre-market trade, maybe after Verizon's
really stellar set of earnings. This was
a market that was expecting maybe
perfection and then some maybe a rise in
guidance, which we didn't quite get from
AT&T. Meanwhile, the energy players,
they are rallying the energy providers
like Constellation Energy and Vistra.
That's because there was an auction
yesterday for power supply on the grid
and the prices there hit record. But it
really underscores how this AI boom is
creating more demand and keeping prices
elevated to benefit these players. So
those shares up around 5% 5.3% for
Vistra. Finally, we also had Capital One
earnings at after the close yesterday.
Again, another solid set of reports that
shows that this is a consumer that is
doing fine. They lowered their loan loss
provisions to lower amount than was
expected. Really healthy there when it
comes to credit card and debit spend.
They also recently acquired Discover
Financial. They had higher costs as they
integrate that, but analysts noting that
the integration is going well. So,
shares up 2.6% in the pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump announcing a trade deal with
Japan. The agreement imposing 15%
tariffs on imports including autos. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson speaking
with us just moments ago.
We had some discussions about the
overall US Japan relationship which was
one of the strongest in the world as
president only President Trump could do.
He brought the Japanese trade delegation
into the oval and had a very wholesome
uh negotiation with them and I tell you
they're they're tough negotiators but
President Trump's tougher.
>> The conversation will continue this
morning. In about 30 minutes from now,
we'll catch up with e-commerce secretary
Howard Lutnik trying to figure out
whether this is a decent template for
everybody else.
>> First of all, I just want to say that I
want to get to the place where I can say
the oval office as the oval with such
familiarity. But I digress. I think that
the most interesting thing that he said
was that the Japanese came up with an
innovative solution and that is the
reason why they got that 15% which was
actually a concession particularly on
the auto manufacturers because of some
of the sectoral tariffs that could
otherwise have raised that to 25% or
more and this raises a question of
whether it is a template for the likes
of the European Union or whether it
really is bespoke and it is nation by
nation and or nation by region and how
they negotiate and what types of
solutions they come up with.
>> That's trade. He also had some things to
say about the Federal Reserve. Secretary
Besson really likes to try and take down
the temperature on a range of issues
including the Fed not going to fire him,
not in a rush to select his replacement.
So there goes that shadow Fed chair
conversation just for the moment and
then the president will speak later on
and no doubt we'll double down once
again on Jerome Pal, the chairman of the
Fed Reserve. And it's a story that just
won't die.
>> Yeah, it's uh President Trump that tries
to raise the temperature and then Scott
Besson who comes and brings the
temperature down and says that we're
still having lunch or breakfast or
whatever every other week. We have a
really good relationship. And uh by the
way, we're not in a rush. That was
really interesting to me. Also, let the
guessing games begin. Regional. Yeah.
The regional uh the regional Fed
presidents as well as lots of women
outside the Fed qualified. Okay.
Everybody get their bingo cards out.
Let's put some more in other than the
Kevin.
>> Maybe you will become familiar with the
Oval. You don't know Bremo.
>> I know. Might be in the running.
>> No. The president has not contacted me
yet, but when called to service, that's
not ever going to happen.
>> Bremo likes high rates and lots of
market discipline. High rates, lots of
discipline. Come on. Okay, let's talk
about a lack of discipline. Meme stocks
making a comeback. Retail traders bang
into heavily shorted companies with low
share prices in a move reminiscent of
2021. GoPro and Crispy Cream, the latest
targets this morning.
>> Maybe people just really like donuts.
Look, I'm really struck by this idea of
what happened with GameStop and how much
it's a template for a lot of the
Redditors going forward. You look at the
stocks that are most shorted, that have
the lowest price, and you try to win
against the hedge funds. That behavior
coming back. Is this the stupid money,
the dumb money, or is this the smart
money in terms of playing a new game and
indicating a new player in a market that
yes, might be getting frothy, but might
have more legs because of this Felmore
type behavior.
>> To that point, does it speak to broader
through? So, Jonathan Leven of Bloomberg
Opinion put a great column out
yesterday. Just selected this paragraph
from him. this quote only 61 of the
stocks on the S&P currently trade above
their consensus 12-month price targets
from Southside analysts the 20 to 2024
average was around 64 and he said during
the meme stock mania of 2020 and 2021 it
wasn't uncommon for around 150 companies
to meet that criteria so I mean it's one
selection one data point to look at how
bullish Southside analysts are right now
but I think it's a decent piece of data
just to say there's not crazy FOMO froth
taking over the whole of Wall Street
just right Now, you said it really well
before, just because you find a pocket
of gambling doesn't mean that the whole
thing's a casino. And I thought that
that was a really astute comment. And it
really does speak to how this might just
be a pocket and a trend and a fad and
some games on Reddit, but not
necessarily something that speaks to a
broader move
>> for the broader market. We do have some
broader earnings. Big tech earnings
kicking off today. Tesla and Alphabet
reporting results after the closing
bell. The Max 7 expected to post a
combined 14% rise in second quarter
profits. That's real money
>> to me. this is really going to be the
ultimate test. So far, we've seen the
retail facing stocks, the consumerf
facing stocks, that's one thing. But
when you take a look at big tech, how
secular is this shift in investment in
uh technological advancement that can
keep driving some of the market activity
regardless of tariffs and broader
concerns about how long some of this
energy can last in the economy.
>> Alphabet and Tesla reporting after the
closing bell. Alphabet on a 10day run of
gains, the longest winning streak, I
think, going back to 2010. Unreal.
Equity futures this morning positive by
a third of 1%. Let's turn back to the
autos. Global car makers rallying after
President Trump agreed to a 15% tariff
on autos imported from Japan. James
Picariello of BMP Paraban joins us now
for more. James, good morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I think the good news is 15 is not 25.
The bad news is still 15. What does it
mean for these guys?
>> Yeah, I mean look, we we import the US
imports about four million vehicles from
Japan and Korea. So, you know, let's
just round numbers say two two million
vehicles from from Japan. Um, you know,
I I think we're going to talk about GM
and GM imports 400,000 vehicles from
South Korea. And, uh, you know, that's
if if if we were to go from a 25 to a
15% tariff rate, GM's looking at an
immediate 1 billion annualized benefit
in terms of tariff. Is
>> that your top pick right now? Is that
why you like GM? You think this is
ultimately the direction of travel?
Yeah, you know, there's a long list of
scenarios as to how tariffs get better
and a very short list as to how they get
worse from here. And you GM has, you
know, some of the highest one of the
highest uh tariff exposures, right? They
import 1.2 million vehicles in total.
And, you know, the the stock I've got
the full tariff impact without any
relaxed, you know, scenarios. And I
would say 2026 represents trough
earnings because of that tariff impact.
and the stock trades at a trough
multiple. Usually when the market has
confidence in trough earnings, you see
stocks trade toward a peak multiple. Not
not the case for GM.
>> Well, this raises the question exactly
how they're going to absorb it and the
potential that they could be facing
higher tariff levels than even Japanese
auto manufacturers and some of the parts
that they import from overseas because
they'll be subjected to more of the
sectoral tariffs that Japanese auto
manufacturers have been exempt from. How
does this not put them at something of a
slight disadvantage at least in the near
term as they try to hash out some of
these other sectoral tariffs?
>> Yeah. So the the US manufacturers right
if we think about Ford, GM, Stalantis,
they import the majority of their parts
from North America, Canada and Mexico.
And the 90% plus of those parts are
USMCA compliant. And if they're
compliant, they're fully exempt from
tariffs. So when we think about US
domestic manufacturing and imported
parts flow, I don't think the US
manufacturers are at a disadvantage
because they're already getting uh full
exemption on the parts they need. You do
have we do have a significant amount of
parts that do come from Europe and
Japan, Korea, but they serve those
automakers in their you know those the
European and you know Japanese Korean
automakers in the US and they you know
so for Japanese automakers importing you
know their fair share of parts from
Japan this is this is a benefit. This is
no doubt a benefit
>> just clear as mud. I mean honestly this
is just sort of amazing to see how yes
we have some clarity in terms of the
actual level of tariffs but what that
means for implementation a real question
and John pointed to this earlier and I
thought it was a great point that what
we're hearing out of Texas instruments
we have no idea how much was a bring
bringing forward of demand we don't know
exactly what this is going to do to the
supply demand dynamic versus the
conviction that we're seeing in the
shares of Toyota seems sort of a
contrast that's hard to square do you
think that companies have enough
certainty not just with where the tariff
rate is but what the response response
will be in the supply chain as well as
consumer demand on the back heels of
that.
>> Yeah, I I think I think
companies in the auto space have the
tariff their you know have their
respective tariff exposure sized up,
right? Um one question mark is to make
matters a little bit more complicated,
there's a rebate, there's a tariff parts
rebate up to 3.75% of the MSRP that all
automakers will enjoy. Um, so that
really negates the whole parts import
tariff headwind. So the tariff headwind
that we really need to navigate are the
vehicles that get imported, right? The
complete vehicles that that get
imported. Um, yeah, you I would say
yeah. Can we turn to the EV market?
How's that doing right now? So, with the
big beautiful bill passed, uh you're
going to see the $7,500 tax credit go
away effective September 30th.
>> You'll have uh we have the relax uh
emission standards, right? Carb has
their w their waiver remote revoked. So,
uh automakers don't have to contend with
the 17 states that were enforcing carb.
You also have the cafe the the fuel
economy standards which now have a zero
fine. So non-compliance, you don't have
anything to worry about. The third and
final piece are EP EPA standards, which
likely get rewritten officially mid next
year. And you know what we're what we're
looking at with OB with with the big
beautiful bill, you're going to have the
removal of the the subsidy. So that
hurts EV demand and automakers won't
have to produce and sell EVs because of
the relaxed emission standard.
>> What is Mary Bar's commitment now to
EVs? So GM had a lot of momentum built
up ahead of ahead of the the
presidential election on EVs. Now, and
this is part of why I think GM trades at
its trough multiple on on trough
earnings. Y it's because they had line
of sight to $2 billion plus of EV loss
improvement getting towards break even
and eventual profitability and now that
gets wiped clear, right? And so some
there's definitely a contingent of
investors that view that $2 billion uh
EV loss improvement as the gap that's
that that can't get you know uh
refilled. What I would say is the let's
just say GM is 200,000 units below plan
for next year on EVs. That 200,000 gets
filled by ICE which is profitable. And
if you factor in 200,000 ICE at a 30%
flow through, you're looking at almost
three billion of profit for GM on ICE,
which fills that gap of of of EV loss,
you know, loss improve.
>> Is there a better company though in a
better position to take advantage of
where the market is right now and where
consumer demand is? Because I think
that's also always been the counterpoint
against GM, at least over the last
several years, is that they were too
aggressive with EVs and some companies
were offering a better mix. They're in
the right place at the right time in a
way that GM wasn't.
>> Yeah. I mean, f focusing the answer on
the tariffs outcome, how this plays out,
right? I do think Japan's trade deal is
a great example. Sure. Tariffs get
relaxed. Which company stands to benefit
the most from a relaxed tariff scenario.
It is GM, right? They're targeting
they're talking about a 4.2 billion in
annualized tariff impact in the current
trade environment. you know there's
there you know there are you know
substantial scenarios there for you know
dramatic earnings improvement from you
know from tariffs relief. James
Pickerello there of BMP Parab. James
appreciate your time. Thank you sir. Top
pick is GM as it gets that tariff relief
some more relief this morning
potentially if we get more deals like
the ones we just got between Japan and
the United States. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahihara. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Staying on trade. The European
Union is preparing to impose 30% tariffs
on $17 billion worth of US goods. The
tariffs will be implemented if a deal is
not reached by August 1st and the US
implements its own levies. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, US
industrial goods such as Boeing
aircraft, cars, bourbon, and whiskey
would be subject to the tariffs.
Meanwhile, there is increasing
speculation that J Japanese Prime
Minister Shigura Oshiba is set to
announce his resignation this following
a historic electoral setback. However,
the embattled leader continues to deny
the reports. And AT&T delivered better
than expected second quarter earnings.
The company added more than 400,000
mobile phone customers, blowing past the
301,000 expected as perks and other
incentives allowed it to take customers
from its rival. Still, the stock is
falling 3 and a half% in the pre-market.
Maybe because it's had a 20% runup so
far this year. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara in the next hour. Up next,
Fed Chair Jay Pel holds on. We have a
real uh terrible terrible uh head of the
Fed. He's either evil or stupid and
either is really not acceptable, but
he's he's not doing a good job and uh
but it'll be he's only going to be there
for a short while.
>> Up next, Alaha of BMY Investments Newton
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Equity futures on the S&P
500 shaping up as follows. positive of
the back of a trade agreement between
the US and Japan up by a third of 1% on
the NASDAQ up by 0.1
this morning Fed chair Jay Powell holds
on
>> we have a real uh terrible terrible uh
head of the Fed he's a stiff he's a
knucklehead he's hurting people that
can't get houses because they don't have
mortgages and I don't know if he knows
it or not he's either evil or stupid and
either is really not acceptable but he's
he's not doing a good job and Yeah, but
it'll be he's only going to be there for
a short while.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump continuing to
bash Fed Chair Jay Powell as the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson doubles
down on Fed scrutiny.
>> The president said he is not going to
fire Chair Powell. What I've come out
and said is that I I believe that it
would do Chair Powell a favor and he
would be doing the institution a favor.
Uh if the if he did an internal review,
separate monetary policy from everything
else. This mission creep from the Fed is
endangering their independence of
monetary policy.
>> Joining us now here in New York, Ella
Hutcher of BNY Investments, Newton.
Ella, good to see you.
>> Good morning. welcome over from Europe.
So, please share the European
perspective. You've been watching this
playing out in the United States. What's
the view over on the continent?
>> Well, I mean, concern, worry, and
obviously trying to figure the sort of
environment we're navigating and what
happens going forward. As we know, the
news flow has been pretty heavy uh which
is I guess good for news makers, but uh
for markets creating quite a lot of
uncertainty and for our clients as well.
Do you see an erosion of operational
autonomy at the Federal Reserve or is
this all just noise?
>> Um, I mean, it's important to
distinguish the signal from the noise.
Um, and I think from an investor's
stance, there's quite a bit of signaling
here of potentially the desire to lower
uh interest rates and potentially
looking at lower real rates in the
future. Good news for some asset
classes, but perhaps for fixed income,
my natural home, uh, less of a benign
setup. So, you have to think about it in
that dimension, I think. And we'll get
into just Fed policy rates and inflation
in just one second, but I'm curious from
the European view, how many of your
clients are less interested in buying
treasuries as some sort of base or are
looking for ways to diversify? Haven't
yet pressed the button, but have plans
to over the next 6 months, one year, two
years.
>> I mean, it's not substantiated by
evidence right now. So, we're not seeing
that sort of sell flow uh that we're
discussing. And in fact, actually,
European clients, Asian clients as well
uh hold far more US equities. in fact
than uh fixed income. So it's perhaps
more of an equity uh question I guess.
And so what happens going forward? Do
you uh continue to buy at the same pace?
Do you hedge your exposure to the
dollar? Those are probably some of the
questions our clients are asking us. But
we haven't seen the dynamics of flow
that are suggesting things have flipped
over. But there's certainly more
uncertainty on the future path.
>> Well, for the United States, but
globally for fixed income. There was
this real question raised implicitly by
the auction overnight in Japan. A
40-year TR a 40-year government debt
that was the weakest performance since
2011 led to record high yields and it
led to this real question. Are we seeing
the bill really come to the four for all
of those years of borrowing to uh fix
all the fiscal problems? Do you see this
as a sea change that isn't going away
that yields are just going to be
structurally higher for developed
markets?
>> Absolutely. Yes. We're definitely in the
camp that believes at some point we have
to face this debt crisis. Um maybe it's
too early to do so now, but you do see
the dynamics of what's happening in the
long end of a lot of the bond markets.
You you mentioned Japan. Japan
absolutely is the case in point.
Technically, it's broken to the upside.
Uh something similar happening out of
Germany, the long end and in the US. We
are also flirting technically with that
level as well. So this is a global
phenomenon. It's a concern around who's
going to finance this large uh deficits
uh across the world.
>> You use the word crisis. What makes it a
crisis?
>> Um I should have probably stayed away
from that word, but big mistake. No, but
I mean, look, I' I've uh you know, lived
through the European crisis, so we've
seen a debt crisis play out and when and
we traded it, those of us who were
around. Um it's it's it's a it's a worse
setup in some ways, right? Because since
the pandemic, the debt levels across the
world went up. And I think everyone
understands that you know at some point
you have to pay those bills and you know
the difficulty is uh we cannot probably
afford to do so and so you're looking
potentially that's why this discussion
around the much lower borrowing costs
from governments come to the four and
what that means is potentially you are
looking at that setup but the bond
investors will demand demand more
premium across the curve right so you
could probably suppress the short end of
maturities but the long end still will
stay elevated and you also bring
ramifications for currencies um to the
forefront as well.
>> Are some of these nations already
falling into a so-called doom loop? And
by that I mean they've raised taxes,
it's hurt the economy, that's damaged
tax receipts, they're raising taxes, it
hurts the economy, that means tax
receipts go down again and they keep
going and keep going. And I'm thinking
of the UK.
>> Is it just the UK or is it other
countries too? And does that make you
hesitant about holding those nations
bonds? Yes, the UK has been super
interesting and it's it's a great
example to bring to the forefront
because actually whenever the market
puts pressure on guilt yields uh you see
pressure on the currency as well and we
saw something similar in Japan as well
recently perhaps you could argue even in
that uh turmoil of April with treasuries
and the dollar there was some dynamic.
So those are probably early signs of
exactly this point. I don't know, you
know, I'm not uh keen on timing things,
but the future uh direction seems to be
more clear that we potentially are
headed for something like that. Now,
because of this difficulty in sustaining
this dynamic that you mentioned, the
easier path is always one that leads to
potentially more inflation down the
road. And so, I think that also explains
part of the reason why precious metals
are doing so well in this environment.
Well, but it's a good question whether
the UK is sort of a story unto itself or
whether it's representative of a new
dynamic where developed markets trade
more like developing nations where
suddenly bond yields go up, currency
weakens, and you have the same kind of
doom loop that John was talking about in
the likes of Japan, in the likes of the
United States.
>> Yes. And and this is exactly right. I
think you sort of being situated in DM,
you think this kind of setup can never
happen here in terms of what we've seen
in emerging market economies, but
actually I do think it's exactly the
kind of setup we might see over the next
two to five years. Um, for exactly the
same reasons that you point out. Um, and
the fact that we're unprepared probably
makes it even more um, I don't want to
use the term dangerous, but at least we
should figure out how do you and I used
to joke actually when we were hiring uh,
in my team previously, I was saying
maybe we should look for some Brazilians
to join the team because at least
they've traded in inflation so they'll
understand this better. But certainly
people with a more of an emerging
markets mentality to them.
>> Or if you're following the situation
with the Federal Reserve, maybe someone
from Turkey who experienced the last
several years over there as well.
>> Absolutely. Big fan of Turkey.
>> The kind of experience you need at the
moment, right? man. Well, that's the
concern. That is the big example.
>> On a serious note, EM type dynamics
taking hold of DM in many ways over the
last few years.
>> Yeah. You point to the United Kingdom
and yesterday it was clear that the
amount they were paying on interest
payments was just superseding
expectations, causing them to raise more
debt, causing yields to go up, causing
their interest payments to go up,
causing the tax receipts uh to not
necessarily be able to plug that hole.
The currency goes down, yields go up. It
is not It is a toxic brew, if you will.
And I will use the word a crisis in the
making. Yeah. And that's exactly what
people are worried about.
>> You've said this a million times. What
don't they want to do? They don't want
to cut spending. And that's the issue.
The Treasury Secretary Scott Basson has
talked about this so many times with
regards to the US. He'll say, "We don't
have a tax problem. We have a spending
problem." And the UK has a similar
issue.
>> So how do you emerge from this? Is it to
Ella's point just some sort of
inflationary boost that's going to be a
dramatic reshaping in developed market
currencies and developed markets more
broadly than a lot of people are
realizing
>> as we've seen from the present
government in the UK it's kicked the can
they don't want to cut spending
>> of course not
>> until this guilt market really starts to
bite and maybe we haven't seen that yet
to your point crisis potentially in the
making it's good to see you thanks for
dropping by appreciate your time Ella
Hod there of BMY Investments Newton up
next on the program Jack Caffrey of JP
Morgan assets and management, the US
commerce secretary Hamard Lutnik, Lisa
Hornby of Schroers, and the US Senator
Bill Hagerty of Tennessee.
>> The AI bullishness is there. I don't
think that that has changed.
>> Technology companies driven by
artificial intelligence is going to be
where you get your earnings growth this
quarter.
>> We've obviously had a long streak of
really very little volatility.
>> This whole rally has been fought. The
S&P is not the same as it was 25 years
ago.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good
morning. Equity futures on the S&P
adding some weight to the rally. Up a
third of 1% on the S&P 500 after closing
at all-time highs in yesterday's
session. On the NASDAQ up by 0.1 as we
get a deal between the United States and
Japan. Coming up later on this
afternoon, two earnings reports in
focus. Numbers from Tesla, numbers from
Alphabet, kicking off Max 7 results
after the close.
>> And this really is going to be the most
important aspect of earning season,
which really is heating up this week,
the second busiest week for earnings for
the entire quarter. a question of just
how much optimism do big tech companies
have at a time when they have thought
been thought to be the secular gainers
that have driven the entire market
higher despite some of the noise around
tariffs despite some of the
uncertainties that still remain
>> and as we get some deals with Japan and
other countries how forgiving will we be
of potential bad news further down the
road because people might just say
that's a reflection of all the
volatility policy volatility of the last
several months we got the details now
focus on 2026
>> it depends and this is sort of what
we're learning company by company. We're
hearing, for example, General Motors
talk about a billion dollar hit to their
bottom line because of their absorption
of some of their tariffs. At the same
time, Texas Instruments comes out
yesterday and says, "We don't know how
much of the really robust demand we
already saw in this quarter came from
bringing forward demand ahead of tariffs
and their stocks are falling out of
bed." Go figure. What do people want to
tolerate? It is unclear and it kind of
does feel like it's a a stockby stock
story.
>> Stock is getting hammered. It's down by
9% in the pre-market. We've brought up
this dynamic a few times on this
program. Just a bit of tension between
what's happening there with Texas
Instruments and what's happening with
the euphoria around the global auto
market stocks throughout this morning.
>> Yeah. And just to put some context into
that, Texas Instruments produces some of
the components for cars and that was one
of the questions about how much those
were brought forward to avoid some of
the tariffs and the tariff impact going
forward. So, do we have the clarity from
auto manufacturers even if you do have a
tariff rate? Is that enough to
understand the clarity of how that gets
transformed in terms of company demand,
in terms of corporate demand, in terms
of just how they really access certain
components? You can understand something
on paper and I still don't understand it
on paper and I don't think CHBT does
either because I've been trying all
morning, but to really play that through
the market is another story.
>> Futures positive by 0.4%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Jackfrey of JP
Morgan following a fresh record high. We
speak to Adich of Bank of America on the
impact of tariffs on earnings and US
commerce secretary Howard Lnik with the
US striking a trade deal with Japan. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump reaching a trade deal
with Japan. We had some discussions
about the overall US Japan relationship
which was one of the strongest in the
world as president only President Trump
could do. He brought the Japanese trade
delegation into the Oval and had a very
wholesome uh negotiation with them. And
I tell you, they're they're tough
negotiators, but President Trump's
tougher.
>> Joining us now is Amarie in the nation's
capital. Amarie, fantastic exchange with
the Treasury Secretary. The Europeans
have one question on their minds this
morning. What does it mean for us?
>> Well, it sounds like listening to the
Treasury Secretary, they need to come up
with innovative financing, Jonathan, in
order to get a deal over the finish
line. That is something the Treasury
Secretary said really got this deal
done. This idea he talks about they came
up with an idea of a Japan US
partnership where they're going to
provide equity, credit guarantees, and
funding for major projects in the United
States. He said all of this FDI is brand
new capital. And it seems that was what
the president was more so willing to
lower that 25% tariff on autos to 15%
and then Japan seemed willing to take
the 15% overall. One thing is key that
Kellyanne Shaw mentioned earlier in the
program. When it comes to the United
Kingdom, they had a lower tariff rate on
autos, but it was capped. There's no cap
now when it comes to Japan. That seems
to be a really big concession. So now if
you're the European Union and you're
looking at we have August 1st to get
through that is basically a week to try
to finalize this agreement. They're
looking at this potentially as a
playbook. What could we do in terms of
investments in the United States? But
one thing seems very clear to me they
are not going to get under 15%. We
should note as well this seemed to be a
shock for a lot of people in Washington.
They weren't tracking a deal to get done
so quickly when it comes to Japan and
potentially things are most tense at the
end of a negotiation. We have a story
out by our European colleagues today
that the EU is reading 30% rates on
about a hundred billion euros worth of
goods in retaliation. The Treasury
Secretary says he would be doing the
same. So maybe they're taking their
negotiating cues from the Oval Office.
>> Amarie, appreciate the update. Looking
forward to conversation. Later on the
hour, about 40 minutes from now, we'll
catch up with the commerce secretary.
How leneg for the Europeans there's a
deal available to them adding G
purchases just write the check come out
and say you want to buy X amount and
move on accept the 15% and get it done
>> oh you want to go negotiate it for them
you want to come up with this innovative
deal that just
>> isn't that just like the doors wide open
is it like just like walk through it
>> you know that's a question I wonder
whether it is or whether there's some
sort of other type of gripe that is at
the heart of this
>> it's personal
>> chickens cars why don't you like our
food I think it is I think that there is
an element of that
>> coronated chickens why Why don't you
like our chlorinated chickens? They
taste great. Why won't you eat our eggs?
>> Let's have a purchase agreement around
chlorinated chickens.
>> We have a purchase agreement on rice.
>> A big bonfire in the middle of Berlin or
something. All right.
>> I'm telling you, this is seriously this
it feels more personal. It feels like
you have really pinpointed us as the
evil players and so, you know, tell us
that we're good. And
>> stop joking around. I agree. Actually, I
do agree. When you listen to the
president carefully, the kind of things
that he says about German auto makers
and how many he sees in America and how
few he sees of US cars over there. This
is a point he's been pushing for a long
time.
>> Yeah, it's sort of this feeling that
maybe there's a superiority complex that
he's trying to kick into. I I don't
know. I'm not going to get into the
psychology. I'm just going to say it
does feel a little bit different with
Europe than it does with Japan.
>> Worth pointing out, a lot of German
autos are produced in America. Right
here,
>> one of the issues.
>> Here's a view on Wall Street this
morning. Jack Caffrey of JP Morgan
writing, "The rally suggests traders are
expecting another positive quarter of
earnings and sales upside against
forecast." Jack joins us now for more.
Jack, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How low is the bar?
it, you know, as you were talking right
before you cut to me, it's very almost
stock specific. I mean, earlier this
week, we heard from, you know, a
semiconductor company that sells to the
auto industry. They were down 6%. Last
night, we heard the update from Texas
Instruments, good numbers, weak
guidance. They're down 9% this morning,
which doesn't feel like it's supposed to
be shocking after what we'd heard
earlier in the week. And at the same
time, you're seeing names, but the
average company's up 1% the day after
their report. So on the whole things are
quite nice but the fact is there are a
lot of potholes um and seeming landmines
that people are still stepping on as we
work our way through this. Um and I
think at some point over the next month
we're going to be spending more of our
time talking less about 2025 and the
very modest expectations for 2025 and
talking about how things accelerate so
dramatically into 2026. Um that hope for
we get policy certainty at some point or
policy consistency.
>> Is that all you want? Just consistency.
I just want to know what the rules are.
And then I think
>> I think ultimately US companies are
exceptional at driving profitability
once they understand what they're going
to operate under. Um if we went back to
the first Trump administration, a lot of
focus on trying to get tax policy and
then you created a trade war within days
later and for the most part companies
sat on their hands in terms of thinking
about their investment. Today now we
actually have some tax clarity. That's
the good news. Ideally, we'll get some
trade clarity um that might lead to
actually understanding where investments
go. But at the same time, I think I and
other investors thought that perhaps
when you looked at where prior budgets
were allocating capital in terms of
trying to think about subsidies and
goals, um a lot of that's now been
thrown up as you've ripped up parts of
the the goal of electrification, say, in
the one big beautiful bill. So, I don't
know if the battery complex of Georgia
makes as much sense, if the EV
manufacturing in Tennessee makes quite
as much sense on a go forward basis, if
if the cost structure underwriting those
investments is as durable as we
initially thought.
>> On a broad market basis, have we priced
in the certainty before we've gotten it?
>> Uh, it kind of feels like it when you
think about, you know, implied
volatility effectively at at year lows.
If you look at put buying, that's
running at sort of year lows if you
average it, not any one day's number,
but smooth that out. If you look at
corporate credit spreads, again, you
know, at 52- week lows. So, for the most
part, I think risk markets are saying,
"We got this." Um, and I think that's
where things get trickier, especially as
we go into the next month or so when
liquidity does tend to be a little bit
punkier overall and people try to go on
vacation.
>> Right. Well, this is sort of buy the
rumor and sell the news and a question
about whether you agree with Julian
Emanuel over uh at Evercore ISI when he
came out earlier and he said he sees the
next seven uh the next move in equities
to be something like 7 to 13% lower. Do
you agree with that? Having not read the
note, um I'm not sure what he was
looking to. I think
>> on a theoretical basis, you lower I
>> I think I think you know now next call
it 60 days. I think it's going to be
hard to get a big rally unless you get
something truly dramatic in the way of
of blowout sorts of news. I think
underpinning that though, you know,
we're looking for a mid- teens growth in
earnings coming out of the MAG7. I think
the trick is that the fourlur 493 we're
supposed to have earnings growth of like
3 or 4% for the course of this year that
accelerates to 12% next year. So
actually the momentum in earnings is
shifting away from the mag 7 into the
forlorn. Um and I think that speaks to a
a stable growing economy and and
ultimately I think maybe we spend too
much time talking about the economy does
this. Look at the consumer. The consumer
continues to work. the consumer
continues to spend. And I think that's
really the flywheel that people really
need to pay the most attention to
because it's that stable consumer
spending that's driving the earnings and
cash flow that underpins their
transition to AI. You know, when you
think about who the capital spenders are
versus who the capital providers are.
It's the consumer keeping working and
spending every dollar they get.
>> I'll bite, Lisa. That 7% caller, Julian,
7 to 15, whatever it was.
>> Yeah. There's a common theme I think for
a lot of the analysts who are making
this call at the moment is that they
want to buy it. So they'll say like you
know I expect the equity market to have
a draw down of maybe 10% but ultimately
I want to buy the dip. Heard the same
thing from Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley. Exactly the same. Saw the same
thing from Goldman Sachs. They said we
anticipate a less favorable growth
inflation mix in the second half
challenging the Goldilocks scenario.
Still neutral and still moderately
positive on stocks over a 12-month time
horizon. I see that on repeat across
Wall Street.
>> Yeah. How pessimistic can you get when
ultimately you're talking about a draw
down? That's going to be a great
opportunity. Please, please sell off so
that we can buy it. It raises this
question.
>> I mean, let's remember also that we also
have a Fed that's planning to cut. The
debate might be, do they cut in July or
do they cutting in September? But the
Fed is trying to be our friend. They are
actually moving in a direction that
tends to be risk supportive. And so, you
know, having started my having started
as a strategist and having to live by
trying to get the timing right, you
know, I appreciate being a portfolio
manager and getting to step a little bit
away from the noise and be like, what's
the main thing and let's focus on the
main thing. The direction remains, you
know, a growing economy, growing
earnings, um, and cash getting returned.
Less cash probably gets returned to us
as investors going forward when you
think about the massive investment
demands that we're starting to try to
underwrite. And I think that's going to
make things, you know, perhaps a bit
trickier and where you have to deliver
versus you it would be nice if you
delivered.
>> And a bias to reduce interest rates as
you say, Jack. Appreciate your time.
Jack Kefrey of JP Morgan. The Fed's
still a friend of this market and maybe
the president gets his friend in the
Federal Reserve next year. You're going
to see even bigger rate cuts.
>> Yeah. Which friend? I mean, I think that
that's going to ultimately be the
question. Is it the Kevin? Scott seems
like he's kind of on the outs just
because he's doing a really good job
running the world. I mean, ultimately,
come on. It's almost like a downgrade
for him at this point.
>> He doesn't sound interested, does he?
>> I mean, well, you could call it the
oval. No.
>> Listening to him talk about that
situation, though, that list is longer
than I thought it was. Maybe
>> strategic
>> regional Fed presidents, Fed governors
in the mix.
>> Strategic ambiguity.
>> Don't know.
>> Yeah. I mean, is it trying to just uh
The biggest takeaway to me is they're
not in a rush. And that means that they
can consider all these potential other
candidates rather than a rush into the
Kevin or a rush into the Waller. And
that I think is the real big takeaway
which is in direct contrast with what
we're hearing from President Trump
>> just calming things down
>> as he always does
>> for this morning at least. Equity
futures positive by 0.4% on the S&P with
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. The European Union is preparing
to impose 30% tariffs on $17 billion
worth of US goods. The tariffs will be
implemented if a deal is not reached by
August 1st and the US implements its
levies. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, US industrial goods like
Boeing aircraft, cars, and bourbon and
whiskey would be subject to the tariffs.
Meanwhile, Qatar says it will bid for
the 2036 Summer Olympics. It wants to
become the first Middle Eastern nation
to host the event. Qatar is facing
competition from other countries
including Turkey, Indonesia, and Chile.
The nation says it is well positioned to
hold the Olympics in its capital, Doha.
And Starbucks opened free study rooms in
some of its China stores to try and
boost traffic. The company is taking a
different approach in China where
customers won't have to buy anything to
use the spaces unlike here in the US.
Sourc is telling us here at Blueick,
Starbucks China is also expanded its
drinks menu to lure Gen Z customers.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Har, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes. Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, Adichave Bank of America on
the path for interest rates live from
New York. You're watching Blind TV.
[Music]
We are making good progress with the EU.
The EU has a collective action problem.
27 countries. We are the deficit nation.
They're the surplus nation. So any kind
of a escalation in trade problems will
always hit them worse.
>> The Treasury Secretary Scott Besson on
the potential for an agreement between
the United States and the European Union
following the trade deal between the US
and Japan igniting this move in the
equity market. This move worldwide big
rally in Japan rally here states side up
by 0.4% on the S&P on the Russell up by
0.9. That's the price action. Let's get
you some more N calls. First up, TD
Cowan raising his price target on
Capital 1 to 260, citing solid growth in
his credit card portfolio. That stock is
up by 2.6%. Your second call from BFA
raising his price target on Amazon to
265, citing anthropic AI growth ahead of
earnings. That stock is up by 0.5%. And
finally, Mizuo lowering its price target
on Texas Instruments to 200, noting its
muted outlook due to auto and tariff
headwinds. Their stock is down by close
to 10%. Let's stick with tariffs. GM and
Nokia also reporting increased cost due
to the levies at each of Bank of America
writing with the stackflationary shock
possibly extending into 26. It becomes
more likely that the Fed will be frozen
in place consistent with are at a
consensus call of no Fed cuts this year.
Teacher joins us now for more. A
teacher, good morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Is that a dual mandate in conflict by
the end of the year?
>> It could be. So there's interesting
stories on both sides of the dual
mandate on the unemployment rate. The
big question is how much of the slowdown
that we're seeing in job growth is
supply versus demand. And if you look at
the urate over the last year, it's been
flat. If you look at the ratio of
vacancies to unemployed workers, it's
been flat. So that suggests that a lot
of the slowdown is supply which makes it
less necessary for the Fed to respond.
And on inflation, I think there's two
issues and those are the issues that we
would take with Waller's view on
inflation. One, underlying inflation, I
think is stuck at around 2.5% not close
to 2% that's X of tariffs. And two,
there's a question about the persistence
of the tariff shocks, especially uh the
the pass through of tariffs,
particularly as you get these continued
kind of ratcheting up of tariff rates.
>> Two points there to address the dual
mandate. Do you have a higher conviction
view on one side versus the other?
>> That's a good question. I think probably
higher conviction on inflation. The
labor market is very much in flux right
now. At this point, can we really say
that we have certainty and that we can
start pricing in the actual effective
tariff rates in a way that we didn't uh
we didn't have the capability of doing
say two weeks ago?
>> We certainly don't at this point because
we at least need to see how the 1st of
August plays out. But even as you get
past that, I think there are certainly
risks that we could continue to see um
you know threats of tariffs or actual
implementation of tariffs that are a
little bit higher than expected. I mean
after the 9th of April we assumed that
10% was the baseline rate but now higher
rates are on the table. There's 15% or
19% as a baseline for many countries.
>> You know you said that you have more
conviction about inflation being higher
on the backs of tariffs but also some of
the other uh influences in the economy.
Is that okay? I mean people talk about
it like it's a negative but maybe we
need to have a higher inflation rate
given the fact that we have a lot of
debt. It used to be inflate ourselves
out of that, right? That used to be the
mantra and we see that on a global basis
in developed markets. Why isn't this
actually the cure to a lot of those
problems?
>> It could be. I don't think 3% inflation
is disastrous for the economy and I
don't think 4 and a half% policy rates
are disastrous for the economy either.
It's just that the two go hand in hand.
>> Do the threats to independence right now
make it harder to reduce interest rates.
>> That could be the case. I think most of
the Fed is probably just focused on its
job. And again, I mean, instead of
thinking about that, I think it's easier
to just think about the fundamentals.
And I don't see the fundamentals on
inflation right now supporting rate
cuts. So the idea would be okay, we had
these April tariffs. There's views from
the Fed like New York Fed President
Williams saying just the April tariffs
could continue to affect inflation into
early next year. Now you have this
additional round in August. When does
that fully play out in prices? Is that
the middle of next year? At what point
do we stop saying this is a transitory
shock?
>> Why wouldn't it be a transitory shock
even if it continues into next year?
What's the time horizon for transitory I
guess is the uh
>> exactly that's that's that's the
question right and if tariffs keep kind
of ratcheting up over even a couple of
years into the midterms then when when
does transitory stop being transitory is
it 2026 2027 I don't know right and
again underlying inflation to us looks
like it's around 2.5%. It's not 2% so if
the Fed wants to maintain its
credibility I think it makes sense to
stay where they are right now. You know,
you talk about how you're not as
concerned about the labor market. You're
more uh concerned about the inflation
aspect, and that's something that they
should combat more. I'm talking about
the Federal Reserve. I just wonder what
you're looking at in particular. Is it
the ramification from the one big
beautiful bill and the stimulus effects
of that? Is it the industrial revolution
2.0 where you're seeing a huge capital
expenditure influx in corporate America?
What exactly gives you that faith that
there will be that strength in an
ongoing basis even in the face of
inflation?
>> Right. So I should clarify what I said
about the labor market. Uh our view is
that there job job growth is slowing
down but we see that more as a supply
story rather than a demand story. So
there is some slowdown there and that'll
affect labor income as well. But what
makes us feel better just in the last
few weeks is the pickup in consumer
spending because ultimately there's this
chicken and egg relationship between job
growth and and spending. So if you look
at the July data, well, June retail
sales were somewhat strong. Maybe a lot
of that was inflation. You look at July,
you had a very good prime day and air
travel has really picked up in July as
well. So the consumer seems to have
rebounded a bit going into the third
quarter.
>> You said something about the supply side
of the story and I thought that it was
really uh interesting. Pantheon
Macroeconomics put out a piece
challenging the idea that there was this
huge exodus of immigrants, particularly
illegal immigrants in this country, and
they said, "The actual state-by-state
data does not back this up." And in
fact, in a lot of the areas that are
most sensitive to this workforce, you
are not seeing declines in the labor
market. Are you seeing more evidence
that there is actually that exodus that
some people talk about that really
everyone's been surprised that the
market's held up as well as it has?
>> So, two things to say about that. I
haven't seen the notes so I can't
comment on the details but again if you
look at the bigger picture data the best
indicators of the balance between supply
and demand in the labor market are the
unemployment rate and the V byu ratios
vacancies to unemployed workers and both
of those have been flat for a year even
though job growth has been somewhat
tepid. So that suggests a supply story
right and then the other thing to to
keep track of is that some of these
measures have recently been greenlighted
by the court. So you could see a bigger
slowdown starting even in the next jobs
report.
>> This is the call for 25.
>> Yep.
>> No cuts.
>> Have you established one for 26 yet?
>> Yes.
>> What is it now?
>> We think they'll cut by about 100 basis
points next year, but there's a lot of
risk around that number.
>> Can we understand the 100? Where does
the 100 come from? Is that because
there's a new Fed chair?
>> That's part of the story.
>> That's So you believe it's just the
individual. That's what matters here,
not the economic backdrop. It's part of
the story, but I think by late 26,
you're also going to have a little more
confidence on inflation, right? So,
right now, the Fed is sitting there and
thinking, okay, we really don't know. I
mean, what what what they said in April
was, let's get some clarity on the
tariff picture and then we can move.
Going into the July meeting, they're not
going to have that clarity because the
April 1 deadline is 2 days later. I
don't even know if they'll have clarity
on the economic impact by the end of
this year, but presumably in the second
half of next year, they'll know more. So
transitory is 12 months cleared that up
eventually.
>> I think that I think that we have a good
understanding transitory is the end of
2026 and then they can make a judgment.
>> Adicha, good to see you. Adicha there of
Bank of America. This is part of the
call for next year. It's not just about
the economics. It's about the politics.
It's the individual that's chosen to
lead the Federal Reserve.
>> So at this point you can say that there
is a political sheen to the Federal
Reserve. You can make the argument there
always has been. This isn't new, but it
really shows how this is uh moving
markets in a significant way and
expectations even before Fed Chair J
Pallets.
>> I wonder if the president's conditioned
by his last pick, which was Chairman
Pal. That was the sensible pick at the
time. Go with someone on the committee,
elevate them, and whether that holds
back the president from selecting
Governor Waller at a time when a lot of
people on Wall Street would like to see
Governor Waller become the next Fed
chair.
>> Well, evidently he's got some regional
uh Fed presidents to uh choose from. So,
you know, let's get our let's get our
trees out and start thinking about that.
[Music]
Coming up in the next 30 minutes or so,
don't miss this conversation. Amarie
catching up with the commerce secretary
Howard Lutnik in Washington DC following
a trade agreement between the United
States and China. A deal struck
overnight that's unleashed quite a rally
in Japan and a decent rally state side
too. from New York City this morning.
Good morning and welcome to the program.
Equity futures positive by 0.4% a
two-day winning streak into Wednesday
all-time highs on the NASDAQ up a tenth
of 1%. The next stop for this market,
Alpha, Ben, and Tesla after the closing
bow. Check out fixed income 2-year,
10year, 30-year, 10-year bond yields
falling for five consecutive sessions
coming into today. Yields rising today
by two basis points, 436 on a 30-year up
by a basis point of 2 to 493. dragged
higher by this Japan Japanese bond
yields higher by five basis points at
the long end of the curve. Make it eight
basis points at the ultra long end of
the curve. The conversation about
Japanese debt. This isn't about the
trade agreement. It's about the future
of the prime minister and a messy debt
auction.
>> There is a rumor has been reported by
local media that Prime Minister Sheiba
is going to resign is going to step down
after the disastrous election for him
and his loss of popularity. Who gets in
that seat? Is it somebody who wants to
cut taxes in the face of higher debt
spending and concerns about a slowdown?
That is not what bond vigilantes want to
hear and they are protesting this
morning.
>> Protesting this morning and maybe that
bleeds over to the United States at
exactly the wrong time.
>> Well, this to me is really the question.
Do we have a bond vigilante issue on our
hand or don't we? Are they on the
sidelines or do people, you know,
actually really like the income and
they're going to come into these
developed markets regardless? And that
is one of the big conundrums heading
into 2026, the remainder of this year,
simply because yields are high, but then
people say, "Okay, but we want them."
And we hear that from Bob Michael all
the time.
>> Thinking of Bob. Exactly. That's who was
in my mind earlier this week. Bob
Michael of JP Morgan asset management
who just talked about this wall of money
coming into fixed income. That's the
global debt market with 60 minutes until
the opening bound. Let's get you some
morning movers. We can catch up with
Yahara for that. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with a toy and game
maker Hasbro shares are now down 4.4% 4%
fee because apparently good is not good
enough. The company gave a strong second
quarter and said that it's boosting its
full year's outlook. The company cited
ongoing cost cuts and saying that it had
record results in its Wizards of the
Coast unit, which I just learned makes
the games like Dungeons and Dragons.
Analysts say that the quarter beat even
bullish expectations with JP Morgan
calling the updated forecast
conservative, yet shares are still
lower. Next up, we have the auto stocks.
They are having a bit of a relief rally
here after the US of course struck a
trade deal with Japan with tariffs not
as bad at 15%. But the reason Stalantis
is rising so much 6.5% is it imports a
significant portion of the vehicles it
sells in the US from overseas. And what
this US Japan trade deal does is it
provides some clarity for the automakers
and some analysts say it could be a
blueprint for any EU US deal. And we're
starting to see the knock-on effects
from Texas Instruments weak outlook.
Take a look at on semiconductor NXP all
falling since like Texas Instruments
they make chips for the auto and
industrial sectors. to worry here is
what Texas Instruments has to say that
auto it still sees no signs of recovery
in the auto sector and it doesn't know
how much of a pull forward as we've been
talking about due do tariffs contributed
to those strong results it saw in the
second quarter and what it means moving
forward John
>> Yhara thank you a question this morning
for the equity market what do you
believe in more the selloff in Texas
instruments or the rally in global
automakers
>> put perfectly do you uh sort of hinge
your bets on the ability to plan for the
future future or the reality that in the
near term we've already brought forward
so much of that demand. So it's going to
be maybe tepid for the next 6 months.
>> Some interesting movers for you this
morning. More interesting ones after the
closing bow. We'll hear from Alphabet
and we'll hear from Tesla. Let's turn
back to fixed income. The US 10-year
Treasury yield rising on weaker safe
haven demand as US strikes a trade deal
with Japan. Joining us now is Lisa
Hornby of Schroers who writes the
following. The curve has moved a long
way and could be due for a pause. Lisa,
good morning. Hi,
>> it's good to see you. That trade
agreement with the US and Japan, is that
good or bad for bonds?
>> That's an interesting question. I
by itself, I guess you could say it
potentially maybe as bad for bonds. I
mean, yields are moving up higher. I
think the bigger picture is that yields
in Japan are moving higher and so there
we're in a global world and I think you
have to think about if yields elsewhere
are moving higher that potentially
reduces the demand from overseas
investors for US fixed income. Now, I'll
note everybody was super bearish on
demand for US fixed income a few months
back. Nobody wanted anything in the US.
Nobody would we'd see a buyer strike.
The tick data has showed and other data
showed that that's not happening. But
sure, higher yields abroad um
potentially reduces some incremental
demand for the US.
>> You took it to Japan, so let's stay
there.
>> You took it to Japan.
>> The move in Japan, is that because of
what we've seen with the trade agreement
or is that because of what might happen
with the Japanese prime minister and
what happened with the debt auction? I I
I think it's a combination of things. I
think it also potentially moves policy
back towards maybe a more hawkish
position than it would have been outside
of a trade deal. So I think the
confluence of factors suggest bond
yields in Japan can continue the rise
that they were doing previous to this
last couple of months.
>> There is this dynamic that seems to be
evolving where investors are getting
skittish about the unwillingness of
governments to pay their debts. And
we've seen this in the United Kingdom.
We've seen this on the margins in the
United States. And we certainly are
seeing that in Japan. How much does that
how far does that go? Right? Because at
a certain point, if people are getting
income that they haven't gotten in the
past decade, they're going to like it
akin to what Bob Michael of JP Morgan
Asset Management keeps saying. I mean, I
was listening to your comments before,
and I think this is an amazing time in
bond markets, right? It's probably the
first time, maybe not the first, the
last couple of years, it's been exciting
to be a fixed income manager because we
have income, we have yield. You know,
you can buy relatively safe, highquality
assets and produce a significant amount
of income over the next several years.
You also have the potential for capital
appreciation. Eventually, we'll enter a
cutting cycle. I heard your previous
guess, you know, maybe it's next year,
maybe it's at the end of this year, but
at some point rates will be coming down
and then you have capital appreciation
on top of that. So, I think it's an
amazing environment. I'm less concerned
about the inability to pay debts. I do
think curves generally longer term are
biased towards steepeners because there
does need to be more term premium. Now I
think a good degree of that is reflected
in the immediate present. I think a lot
of people are positioned in curve
steepeners. I think we've had a lot of
the bad news with regards to deficits
and how big they are. Um so I do think
there could be a tactical pause there
but longer term yes I think you need to
embed some higher inflation risk
premium. I think you need to embed some
higher you need to demand a little bit
more yield to buy the long end. And I
think broadly that's what we've seen in
markets.
>> You know, I remember two years ago
people would have said that when we got
yields at this level, there would be
people who would say, "Why should I own
stocks? I'm going to go into bonds. I'm
going to get that income." You're not
hearing that as much anymore now. People
are saying it's an inflationary
environment. You're pegged to this sort
of industrial revolution, the AI uh out
outcropping. I mean, at what point do
you start to see stock investors go into
bond investors, or is that relationship
just totally broken down? I think it's
it's broken for the moment until we have
some sort of correction. And corrections
are natural. We forget that they exist,
but they are they they will exist again.
And I think it's at that point that we
see this rotation into bonds. I mean,
look, we're saying bonds are unloved.
And yet, every corporate deal that comes
to market recently is multiple times
overs subscribed. You know, six, five,
six, seven times overs subscribed.
Compare that to history, it's probably
closer to three. So we're seeing a lot
of demand even you know as people are
saying oh we're worried about bonds
certainly the retail market might be
worried about bonds and we're seeing
that in the municipal bond market but I
think broadly there's still there's a
ton of demand out there and that's
what's supporting credit spreads for
example at the very very tight end of
their historical range
>> high yield spreads 280 y
>> right now south to 300 basis points
super super tight
>> yeah but people see further spread
tightening going forward just because
companies are doing really well they're
adapting and adjusting and consumers are
still spending so there you go
>> we're moving on Lisa, it's all over.
Moving on to 26 and 27. I find that
amazing when 25 isn't still is still not
settled that we're moving on to 26 and
27.
>> Well, it raises the prospect that we've
priced in certainty and we've priced in
strength before it's happened. And so at
what point again do you buy the rumor,
sell the news? How much are we creating
tops that look pretty perilous where
they are? And that's I think what Julian
Emanuel was talking about for a moment
that he wants to buy
>> buying the recovery to the slowdown we
haven't had yet which is always in a
confusing one. Anyway, Lisa Hby, it's
good to see you.
>> It's great to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. I appreciate it.
Lisa Hornby there of Schroeders. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide.
We can do that with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahi. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. President Trump announced a
trade deal with Japan. The agreement
opposes imposes a 15% tariff on imports
and creates a $550 billion fund to make
investments in the US. Japan also agreed
to buy 100 Boeing aircraft, boost rice
purchases, and increase defense spending
with US firms. Meanwhile, Microsoft is
accusing Chinese state sponsored hackers
of exploiting flaws in its SharePoint
software in a hacking campaign. China
responding saying the country opposes
cyber crime but also opposes smearing
others without solid evidence. And
Morgan Stanley is being investigated by
the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority known as FINRA over its
vetting of clients for the risk of money
laundering. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the investigation is focused
on clients risk ranking and other
practices. The bank has been working on
fixing its client screening practices
after the Federal Reserve for years
raised concerns. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. So, up next on the program, a
mustwatch conversation. The US commerce
secretary Ham Lnik sitting down with
Amarie following an agreement between
the United States and Japan unleashing a
big rally worldwide.
[Music]
15% for Japan for reciprocal tariffs for
autos. uh that is a different kind of
deal but the because the Japanese
proposed a very innovative solution uh
we've been working with them for months
the trade team uh myself ambassador
Greer secretary Lutnik and they came to
us with the idea of a Japan US
partnership
>> some good news we're making some
progress that was the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson speaking of Bloomberg
surveillance a little bit earlier on
this morning signs of progress are
moving Market equity futures positive by
a third of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
up by a tenth of 1%. It's our top story
so far this morning. President Donald
Trump reaching a deal with Japan
imposing 15% tariffs on imports. Trump
also saying Japan will invest $550
billion into the US. Amry joins us now
with a special guest. Hey Amarie.
>> Good morning Jonathan. That's right. I'm
with another negotiator that was at that
table with the president last night,
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik. I want
to pick up on this idea and good
morning. Thanks for joining us. I want
to pick up this idea of innovative
financing mechanisms and this $550
billion fund the Japanese are going to
be investing into. What exactly is that
fund going to look like?
>> So the Japanese are going to give
America the ability to choose the
projects, decide the projects and
execute the projects. So let's say we
want to build um generic
pharmaceuticals, right? We don't make
antibiotics in America. So the president
says, "Let's go make antibiotics in
America." The Japanese will finance the
project. They will finance the project
and then we'll give it to an operator
who'll run it and the profits will be
split 90% to the taxpayers of the United
States of America and 10% to the
Japanese. So they basically bought down
their tariff rate by this commitment of
we will back what you the president want
and you America want to build in America
that are key to national security
concerns will back that and therefore
we'll be on your side.
>> The prime minister Oshiba says these are
loan guarantees. Is it more than that?
>> Of course it's more than that. It's it's
equity loans and loan guarantees. They
have to deliver the project. So we say,
"Let's build semiconductors. We want to
build a hundred billion dollar worth of
semiconductor fabs is what you call them
cuz we want to make those chips in
America." The Japanese will finance that
whole project. They've got to put down
equity, loans, loan, whatever they want
to do. They have to deliver the hundred
billion
>> or Japanese companies.
>> J Oh, no. No. Anybody does it. It's the
Japanese are the financer. They're the
banker. They're not the operator. It's
not Japanese companies. So what people
get confused, this isn't like uh a
Japanese company like like H, you know,
like uh Toyota coming in and building a
factory. No, that's Toyota. This is
literally America saying we want to
build uh generic pharmaceuticals,
semiconductors, critical minerals.
>> This exists now like what could we think
of and model after that?
>> That's why you have someone like me who
joins the government. I mean this was my
idea in January. So I started because
the Japanese are never going to really
open their market the way Donald Trump
wants them to open it. I mean open it,
open it, you know. So what happens is
they had to come up with another way to
really make it work and the tariff model
work. So I suggested to them a $400
billion fund where they would give to
the president and they would give to
America the financing to go build out
your whatever you think for national
security. Go build it. We'll back you
and that's the model. The
>> reports the prime minister though may be
resigning. Could this deal transcend
domestic politics in Japan?
>> Of course. I mean it's vital. You saw
what happened to their car companies.
They were all up more than 10% today. So
a 25% tariff delivers what Donald Trump
said. Build it in America. A 15% is
right on the edge. It's right on the
edge. So the Japanese car manufacturers
can still produce in Japan. And that's
what the Japanese wanted to buy. They
wanted to buy that line where they could
stay in Japan for some cars, build of
course huge amounts here, but also what
they did is they'll invest and give
Donald Trump the tools to invest in
America.
>> That 15% tariff on autos is huge for
Japan. Do you see the entire auto
tariff, that sectoral tariff coming down
from 25% to 15%? Because for some
inputs, this would mean Toyota has a 15%
rate, but GM still has a 25% rate. Well,
GM doesn't have a 25% rate unless they
build some import from South Korea or a
problem.
>> Okay, if you build if you build in South
Korea, that's a you have a South Korea
thing. And if you're importing from
South Korea, that's a South Korea thing.
So Europe is now paying 25%. South Korea
is paying 25%. The Japanese have bought,
if you will, and by giving a huge
investment to Donald Trump in America,
they've bought the ability to be down to
15% and Donald Trump can then really
invest in America on the projects that
he thinks are the most important for
America. And we'll see what happens with
Europe. We'll see what happens with
South Korea. But right now, Donald Trump
has put the pressure on them. Let's be
clear. Put the pressure on them.
>> Is this a model for Brussels? It could
be. I mean, that's up to them to
negotiate, right? Are they willing to
open their market? I I don't think I
don't think anybody uh Europe's not
going to go and give us a trillion
dollars to
>> Well, can they get below 15% or is 15%
now the floor?
>> I fors I I would I would
>> no for a reciprocal tariff the European
Union.
>> I don't think
>> at one point they're willing to accept
>> I don't think big countries can get low
like that. I think I think small
countries have a possibility of being
low and that's up to the president to
decide, but larger c countries will have
a hard time with that. They will have a
hard time.
>> So to be clear with the European Union
right now and the trade negotiations are
in Washington. I know you're talking to
them every single day. The rate the
floor that they would have to accept is
15% what Japan accepted.
>> I think what everybody in the world has
seen is Donald Trump. So I'm the table
setter if you will, right? I set the
table, right? I organize things. as I
structure things. Uh, you know, there
was a picture uh that the president
posted over his shoulder with the big
board that of course I created the big
board and put it there. But the answer
is the negotiator and chief of the
United States of America is sitting
behind the desk.
>> You know, Donald Trump is sitting there
negotiating the deal.
>> You also created the board on liberation
day and we saw the skyhigh tariffs. You
created last night's board. I'm trying
to understand from you what the European
board is going to look like. So if say
say it's a 15% across the board rate,
what could the Europeans be buying that
can assuage the concerns of the
president? Are you talking about LG
purchases? Is there agricultural
purchases?
>> The Europeans have a 20 trillion
economy, right? We have just under 30
trillion and the Chinese and the
Europeans are similar in size at about
20 trillion. So if they say to the
president, we will open our market to
you like and I mean really open it.
Meaning we will take US cars like think
of what the Japanese did. They said we
will take US cars based on US standards.
So you don't have to make a different
car. You can take the car you make in
Detroit, put it on a boat and send it if
the Europeans will accept that. And they
will accept really really accepting
US products in Europe. That's a giant.
That's hundreds of billions of dollars
of export opportunity for Americans.
That's going to move the president
because he's going to say that
opportunity for Americans is so great
there next week.
>> Well, we've been we've been talking
about it for months. I mean, holy moly.
I can't I can't count.
>> They're they're they're saying they're
going to retaliate if they don't get a
deal by all
>> I understand. Then the president wrote
them a letter saying, "If you don't get
a deal done, we're charging you 30%."
>> Negotiating tactics out in public.
>> Well, of course it is. I mean, Donald
Trump writes a letter and says, "If you
don't make a deal, it's 30%." And the
thing about Donald Trump is he's dead
serious. If you don't make a deal, it's
30%. Now, that puts the pressure on
them, right, to say, "Okay, that's my
alternative." They want to get a deal
done for sure. They want to get a deal
done. But does Donald Trump want to get
a deal done? How much does he value the
fact that they open their market? Do
they completely open their market?
Because that's what he's looking for. I
think they will. I think they will
really, really open their market, and I
mean open it, which is something the
United States of America has never had.
The idea that Donald Trump is opening
the world's markets for Americans, the
ranchers, the fishermen, right? Our our
our farmers. I mean these are amazing
opportunities that no one in the world
has ever seen. We have Stockholm
syndrome, right? The world has so held
us off for so long. We we can't even
imagine a world where we can export
freely the way everybody else exports to
us. And that world is coming. That's
what Donald Trump calls the golden age.
That's what he calls our ability to
export to the world the way they treat
us. We can now finally treat them.
You're going to have to step away from
the Europeans though potentially for a
moment next week because I believe
you're going to be headed to the
Stockholm talks with China.
>> Yes.
>> So what we saw with China and this
administration, Jensen Wang had a
conversation with the president. I
imagine you were there when it comes to
the Nvidia H20 chips. What did Jensen
Wang say to you and the president that
gave him the green light to start
selling those H20s back into China?
>> Well, the H20s were open during Biden.
So Biden set really
>> well they were developed during Biden
because
>> but they were sold to China. They were
actually sold to China and then we came
in and we said whoa whoa whoa that's a
pretty powerful chip
>> in April and we held that back
>> and that was then held back and now we
had the whole magnet thing which is very
exciting. We're trying to uh make sure
that magnets are being delivered to our
producers, which was the deal. And these
have export controls on them, and
they'll come off as the Chinese deliver
their magnets, then the H20s will come
off. But it is logical since they were
free to sell last time. It seems
reasonable that we'll get to that.
>> But you said they were a powerful chip.
Are you concerned about national
security issues when it comes to
allowing the Chinese now to get their
hands on the H20? Well, the H20 was the
third best chip in the world and now
it's the fourth best, right? Because the
Blackwell is the best. There's an H200
and H100. So, an H20 is the fourth best
chip. And I think the president has
decided that if things are going well
with China that they can buy them. So, I
think that decision's been made. We are
putting on the licensing mechanism and
uh we are getting that going. But the
president has decided that the Chinese
can buy them. But that's in a balanced
way with the Chinese delivering on the
deal that we made with them and they're
delivering rare earths to American
manufacturers.
>> So when you sit across from your Chinese
counterparts next week, what do you plan
to discuss with them? Is loosening
export controls more ex more export
controls on the table?
>> I think what we talk about is there's a
line right below the line we are giant
economies. We should trade with each
other, right? They want to buy our
produce. They want to buy our
vegetables. Right? They need they don't
grow everything. They don't have the
bread basket of America that we have. So
they want to buy those products. And you
know what? There's lots of things that
they make that we want to buy that we
want inexpensive things on our shelves.
So let's talk below the line. Let's open
the market better in China and let us
sell more things in China. And then at
the line where we're competitive, you
know, where is that line where above
that line we're not they're not going to
sell us their hypersonic missiles and
we're not selling them our best chips.
Those two things are not happening
because they're a competitor. They are a
competitor. And what we're really going
to discuss is where's that line? Are the
H20s above the line or below the line?
That's really nuance and that's
discussion. But of course, would we like
to buy baby clothes that are
inexpensive? Of course we would. That
makes perfect sense. So, let's open the
market down here,
>> right? We're never opening the market up
here. And what do we discuss? We
discussed that line of what's over it
and what's under it. But do we want more
of this, them selling it to us and us
selling it to them? The president and
President Xi from China agreed that they
would like to do more business there.
So, we're going to talk about opening
their market more for things that make
sense to open it and we're really going
to discuss the areas that maybe we
should really be addressing. Is that yes
or is that no?
>> One area I just want to finish on this.
I'm curious if you're going to address
directly because it's the commerce
department. An employee of yours is
facing an exit ban right now from China.
Do you have any update on this?
>> It's it's unbelievable. Right. So, he
has um there was an employee of ours
who's a a Chinese national who was
working in the patent office and he went
home and he was arrested and they're
holding his passport. I mean, it's so I
give that to the State Department and
the State Department deals with that.
But it is uh it is outrageous behavior.
It's just outrageous behavior. Secretary
Lutnik, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Of course, Jonathan Lisa,
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik, who's
been integral on all these trade deals,
especially when it comes to Japan. He
says this was his vision, $550 billion
when it comes to that fund.
>> Amarie, appreciate the update. Great
word this morning. Fantastic
conversations. We've made some progress.
The market as always wants to see more.
How much progress can we make? And next
up are the Europeans.
>> Yeah, and this is becomes a very fraught
conversation. Is this a template? Well,
this is innovative financing. Well, can
the Europeans come up with innovative
financing or is the bar going to be
higher? I think the most interesting
takeaway from this week has been that
15%'s the new 10% and 15% is very well
adjusted by the market
adapted to simply because certainty is
better than really dealing just even
with tariffs at this level.
>> We don't like policy volatility. We saw
that through April. Don't like these
self-imposed deadlines either. They're
all over the place and I think for the
time being they're not that important
either for the Chinese at the moment.
Mid August is the next line in the sand.
Secretary Besson's already told us that
doesn't matter anymore. He basically
came on the program again and doubled
down on that. They're going to meet in
Stockholm next week, kick the can just a
little bit further down the road and I
think the market's comfortable with that
idea too.
>> Yeah. So the question is just does that
really go for the other countries as
well and the other regions for the
European Union? Is that August 1st
deadline ultimately fungeable if you
have some ongoing progress? Sort of the
will they, won't they, the taco kind of
question. It seems like this market's
moved on. They're looking at 2026. And I
think that increasingly we're going to
have to try to understand how well
companies really can map out consumers
response to this, the inflationary
response to this, how their supply
chains will adapt and adjust as we do
face off with tariffs that are at their
highest levels going back to the 1930s.
How many times have you said the economy
is not the market? The market's not the
economy. Later we've got a big name
Alphabet. Once you kick off Max 7
earnings, we're talking about something
very different. Microsoft, Amazon,
Google, Apple, very different trends.
There has been a secular shift with
investment in technology that some
people say will be more revolutionary
than the internet. And this has been
fueling the optimism in equity markets.
Have people been conflating that
optimism that really is specific to a
technological advancement with broader
economic strength? And that I think is
one of the key debates on Wall Street.
>> A fantastic lineup of conversations
found only on Bloomberg Surveillance
with Amarie down in Washington DC.
Thanks for watching this morning. Coming
up tomorrow, Andrew Sheets of Morgan
Stanley, Dan Ives of Wedbush, Libby
Cantrol of Pimco, and Puja of TV
Securities from New York City. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. for our
audience worldwide. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.
[Music]